file = t002868
date = 1992-10-19
user = CLINTON
conversation = October_19,_1992_Debate_Transcript
URL = The_Third_Clinton-Bush-Perot_Presidential_Debate

word count = 364
words loading = 21
factor score = 57

My **plan** â€” you can read my **plan** . My **plan** says that we want to 
**raise** marginal **incomes** on **family** **incomes** above $200 , 000 from 
31 to 36 **percent** , that we want to ask foreign corporations simply to 
**pay** the same percentage of **taxes** on their **income** that American 
corporations play ( sic ) in America, that we want to use that **money** to 
provide over $100 **billion** in **tax** **cuts** for **investment** in new 
plant and equipment, for **small** **business** , for new technologies, and for 
**middle** **class** **tax** **relief** . Now, I ' ll tell ya this. I will not 
**raise** **taxes** on the **middle** **class** to **pay** for these 
**programs** . If the **money** does not come in there to **pay** for these 
**programs** , we will **cut** other **government** **spending** or we will 
slow down the phase-in of the **programs** . I am not gonna **raise** **taxes** 
on the **middle** **class** to **pay** for these **programs** . Now 
furthermore, I am not gonna tell you " read my lips " on anything because I 
cannot foresee what **emergencies** might develop in this country. And the 
president said never, never, never would he **raise** **taxes** in New Jersey, 
and within a day Marlin Fitzwater, his spokesman, said now, that ' s not a 
promise. So I think even he has learned that you can ' t say " read my lips " 
because you can ' t know what **emergencies** might come up. But I can tell you 
this. I ' m not gonna **raise** **taxes** on **middle** **class** Americans to 
**pay** for the **programs** I ' ve **recommended** . Read my **plan** . And 
you know how you can trust me about that? Because you know, in the first 
debate, Mr. Bush made some news. He ' d just said Jim Baker was going to be 
secretary of state and in the first debate he said no, now he ' s gonna be 
responsible for domestic economic policy. Well, I ' ll tell ya. I ' ll make 
some news in the 3rd debate. The person responsible for domestic economic 
policy in my administration will be Bill Clinton. I ' m gonna make those 
decisions, and I won ' t **raise** **taxes** on the **middle** **class** to 
**pay** for my **programs** . 

Lemmas in this text that loaded on the factor:

billion 
business 
class 
cut 
emergency 
family 
government (secondary)
income 
investment 
middle 
money 
pay 
percent 
plan 
program 
raise 
recommend (secondary)
relief 
small 
spending 
tax 
