file = t001100
date = 2012-10-03
user = ROMNEY
conversation = October_3,_2012_Debate_Transcript
URL = PRESIDENT_BARACK_OBAMA_AND_FORMER_GOV._MITT_ROMNEY,_R-MASS.,_PRESIDENTIAL_CANDIDATE,_PARTICIPATE_IN_A_CANDIDATES_DEBATE,_UNIVERSITY_OF_DENVER,_COLORADO

word count = 369
words loading = 19
factor score = 54

So if the **tax** **plan** he described were a **tax** **plan** I was asked to 
support, I ' d say absolutely not. I ' m not looking for a $5 trillion **tax** 
**cut** . What I ' ve said is I won ' t **put** in place a **tax** **cut** that 
adds to the **deficit** . That ' s part one. So there ' s no economist that can 
say Mitt Romney ' s **tax** **plan** adds $5 trillion if I say I will not add 
to the **deficit** with my **tax** **plan** . Number two, I will not reduce the 
share **paid** by high-income individuals. I know that you and your running 
mate keep saying that and I know it ' s a popular thing to say with a lot of 
**people** , but it ' s just not the case. Look, I ' ve got five boys. I ' m 
used to **people** saying something that ' s not always true, but just keep on 
repeating it and ultimately hoping I ' ll believe it. But that â€” that is not 
the case. All right? I will not reduce the **taxes** **paid** by high-income 
Americans. And number three, I will not under any circumstances **raise** 
**taxes** on middle-income **families** . I will lower **taxes** on 
middle-income **families** . Now, you cite a study. There are six other studies 
that looked at the study you describe and say it ' s completely wrong. I saw a 
study that came out today that said you ' re going to **raise** **taxes** by $3 
, 000 to $4 , 000 on middle-income **families** . There are all these studies 
out there. But let ' s get at the bottom line. That is, I want to bring down 
**rates** . I want to bring the **rates** down, at the same time **lower** 
deductions and exemptions and credits and so forth, so we keep getting the 
revenue we need. And you ' d think, well, then why lower the **rates** ? And 
the reason is because **small** **business** **pays** that individual **rate** 
; 54 **percent** of America ' s workers **work** in **businesses** that are 
**taxed** not at the corporate **tax** **rate** , but at the individual **tax** 
**rate** . And if we lower that **rate** , they will be able to hire more 
**people** . For me, this is about **jobs** . This is about getting **jobs** 
for the American **people** . 

Lemmas in this text that loaded on the factor:

business 
cut 
deficit 
family 
high 
income 
job 
low 
middle 
pay 
people (secondary)
percent 
plan 
put 
raise 
rate 
small 
tax 
work (secondary)
