file = t001442
date = 2012-10-22
user = ROMNEY
conversation = October_22,_2012_Debate_Transcript
URL = PRESIDENT_BARACK_OBAMA_AND_FORMER_GOV._MITT_ROMNEY,_R-MASS.,_PARTICIPATE_IN_A_CANDIDATES_DEBATE,_LYNN_UNIVERSITY,_BOCA_RATON,_FLORIDA

word count = 425
words loading = 9
factor score = 19

Well, first of all, I want to underscore the same point the president mad, e 
which is that if I ' m President of the United States, when I ' m President of 
the United States, we will stand with Israel. And if Israel is attacked, we 
have their back, not just diplomatically, not just culturally, but militarily. 
That ' s number one. Number two, with regards to Iran and the **threat** of 
Iran, there ' s no question but that a **nuclear** Iran, a nuclear-capable Iran 
is unacceptable to America. It presents a **threat** not only to our friends 
but ultimately a **threat** to us to have Iran have **nuclear** **material** , 
**nuclear** **weapons** that could be used against us or used to be threatening 
to us. It is also essential for us to understand what our mission is in Iran, 
and that is to dissuade Iran from having a **nuclear** **weapon** through 
peaceful and diplomatic means. And crippling **sanctions** are something I 
called for five years ago, when I was in Israel, speaking at the Herzliya 
Conference. I laid out seven steps, crippling **sanctions** were number one. 
And they do work. You ' re seeing it right now in the economy. It ' s 
absolutely the right thing to do, to have crippling **sanctions** . I would 
have put them in place earlier. But it ' s good that we have them. Number two, 
something I would add today is I would tighten those **sanctions** . I would 
say that ships that carry **Iranian** **oil** , can ' t come into our ports. I 
imagine the E. U. would agree with us as well. Not only ships couldn ' t, but I 
' d say companies that are moving their **oil** can ' t, people who are 
**trading** in their **oil** can ' t. I would tighten those **sanctions** 
further. Secondly, I ' d take on diplomatic isolation efforts. I ' d make sure 
that Ahmadinejad is indicted under the Genocide Convention. His words amount to 
genocide incitation. I would indict him for it. I would also make sure that 
their diplomats are treated like the pariah they are around the world. The same 
way we treated the apartheid diplomats of South Africa. We need to increase 
pressure time, and time again on Iran because anything other than a — a — a 
solution to this, which says — which stops this — this **nuclear** folly of 
theirs, is unacceptable to America. And of course, a **military** action is the 
last resort. It is something one would only – only consider if all of the 
other avenues had been — had been tried to their full extent. 

Lemmas in this text that loaded on the factor:

iranian 
material 
military (secondary)
nuclear 
oil (secondary)
sanction 
threat 
trade 
weapon 
