file = t001530
date = 2008-09-26
user = MCCAIN
conversation = September_26,_2008_Debate_Transcript
URL = The_First_McCain-Obama_Presidential_Debate

word count = 372
words loading = 12
factor score = 28

My reading of the **threat** from Iran is that if Iran acquires **nuclear** 
**weapons** , it is an existential **threat** to the State of Israel and it is 
a **threat** to other countries in the region because the other countries in 
the region will feel compelling requirement to acquire **nuclear** **weapons** 
as well. Now we cannot allow a second Holocaust. Let ' s just make that very 
clear. What I have proposed for a long time, and I ' ve had conversation with 
foreign **leaders** about forming a league of **democracies** , let ' s be 
clear and let ' s have some straight talk. The Russians are preventing 
significant action in the United **Nations** Security Council. I have proposed 
a league of **democracies** , a group of people â€“ a group of countries that 
share common interests, common values, common ideals, they also control a lot 
of the world ' s economic power. We could impose significant meaningful, 
painful **sanctions** on the **Iranians** that I think could have a beneficial 
effect. The **Iranians** have a lousy government, so therefore their economy is 
lousy, even though they have significant **oil** revenues. So I am convinced 
that together, we can, with the French, with the British, with the Germans and 
other countries, **democracies** around the world, we can affect **Iranian** 
behavior. But have no doubt, but have no doubt that the **Iranians** continue 
on the path to the acquisition of a **nuclear** **weapon** as we speak tonight. 
And it is a **threat** not only in this region but around the world. What I ' d 
also like to point out the **Iranians** are putting the most lethal IEDs into 
Iraq which are killing young Americans, there are special groups in Iran coming 
into Iraq and are being **trained** in Iran. There is the Republican Guard in 
Iran, which Senator Kyl had an amendment in order to declare them a sponsor of 
terror. Senator Obama said that would be provocative. So this is a serious 
**threat** . This is a serious **threat** to security in the world, and I 
believe we can **act** and we can **act** with our friends and **allies** and 
reduce that **threat** as quickly as possible, but have no doubt about the 
ultimate result of them acquiring **nuclear** **weapons** . 

Lemmas in this text that loaded on the factor:

act 
ally 
democracy 
iranian 
leader (secondary)
nations 
nuclear 
oil (secondary)
sanction 
threat 
train 
weapon 
