file = t001531
date = 2008-09-26
user = OBAMA
conversation = September_26,_2008_Debate_Transcript
URL = The_First_McCain-Obama_Presidential_Debate

word count = 339
words loading = 8
factor score = 13

Well, let me just correct something very quickly. I believe the Republican 
Guard of Iran is a **terrorist** organization. I ' ve consistently said so. 
What Senator McCain refers to is a measure in the Senate that would try to 
broaden the mandate inside of Iraq. To deal with Iran. And ironically, the 
single thing that has strengthened Iran over the last several years has been 
the **war** in Iraq. Iraq was Iran ' s mortal enemy. That was cleared away. And 
what we ' ve seen over the last several years is Iran ' s influence grow. They 
have funded Hezbollah, they have funded Hamas, they have gone from zero 
centrifuges to 4 , 000 centrifuges to develop a **nuclear** **weapon** . So 
obviously, our policy over the last eight years has not worked. Senator McCain 
is absolutely right, we cannot tolerate a **nuclear** Iran. It would be a game 
changer. Not only would it threaten Israel, a country that is our stalwart 
**ally** , but it would also create an environment in which you could set off 
an arms race in this Middle East. Now here ' s what we need to do. We do need 
tougher **sanctions** . I do not agree with Senator McCain that we ' re going 
to be able to execute the kind of **sanctions** we need without some 
cooperation with countries like Russia and China that are, I think Senator 
McCain would agree, not **democracies** , but have extensive **trade** with 
Iran but potentially have an interest in making sure Iran doesn ' t have a 
**nuclear** **weapon** . But we are also going to have to, I believe, engage in 
tough direct diplomacy with Iran and this is a major difference I have with 
Senator McCain, this notion that by not talking to people we are punishing them 
has not worked. It has not worked in Iran, it has not worked in North Korea. In 
each instance, our efforts at isolation have actually accelerated their efforts 
to get **nuclear** **weapons** . That will change when I ' m president of the 
United States. 

Lemmas in this text that loaded on the factor:

ally 
democracy 
nuclear 
sanction 
terrorist 
trade 
war (secondary)
weapon 
