file = t001813
date = 2004-10-08
user = BUSH
conversation = October_8,_2004_Debate_Transcript
URL = The_Second_Bush-Kerry_Presidential_Debate

word count = 373
words loading = 10
factor score = 25

Each **situation** is different, Robin. And obviously we hope that diplomacy 
works before you ever use **force** . The hardest decision a president makes is 
ever to use **force** . After 9 / 11 , we had to look at the world differently. 
After 9 / 11 , we had to recognize that when we saw a **threat** , we must take 
it seriously before it comes to hurt us. In the old days we ' d see a 
**threat** , and we could deal with it if we felt like it or not. But 9 / 11 
changed it all. I vowed to our countrymen that I would do everything I could to 
protect the American people. That ' s why we ' re bringing Al Qaida to justice. 
Seventy five percent of them have been brought to justice. That ' s why I said 
to Afghanistan: If you harbor a **terrorist** , you ' re just as guilty as the 
**terrorist** . And the Taliban is no longer in power, and Al Qaida no longer 
has a place to plan. And I saw a unique **threat** in Saddam Hussein, as did my 
opponent, because we thought he had **weapons** of **mass** **destruction** . 
And the unique **threat** was that he could give **weapons** of **mass** 
**destruction** to an organization like Al Qaida, and the harm they inflicted 
on us with airplanes would be multiplied greatly by **weapons** of **mass** 
**destruction** . And that was the serious, serious **threat** . So I tried 
diplomacy, went to the United **Nations** . But as we learned in the same 
report I quoted, Saddam Hussein was gaming the oil-for-food program to get rid 
of **sanctions** . He was trying to get rid of **sanctions** for a reason: He 
wanted to restart his **weapons** programs. We all thought there was 
**weapons** there, Robin. My opponent thought there was **weapons** there. That 
' s why he called him a grave **threat** . I wasn ' t happy when we found out 
there wasn ' t **weapons** , and we ' ve got an intelligence group together to 
figure out why. But Saddam Hussein was a unique **threat** . And the world is 
better off without him in power. And my opponent ' s plans lead me to conclude 
that Saddam Hussein would still be in power, and the world would be more 
dangerous. Thank you, sir. 

Lemmas in this text that loaded on the factor:

destruction 
force (secondary)
mass 
nations 
oil (secondary)
sanction 
situation (secondary)
terrorist 
threat 
weapon 
