file = t001267
date = 2012-10-11
user = RYAN
conversation = October_11,_2012_Debate_Transcript
URL = REP._PAUL_D._RYAN,_R-WIS.,_VICE_PRESIDENTIAL_CANDIDATE,AND_VICE_PRESIDENT_JOSEPH_R._BIDEN_JR._PARTICIPATE_IN_ACANDIDATES_DEBATE,_DANVILLE,_KENTUCKY

word count = 277
words loading = 1
factor score = -2

We don ' t want to lose the **gains** we ' ve gotten. We want to make sure that 
the Taliban does not come back in and give Al Qaida a safe haven. We agree with 
the administration on their 2014 transition. Look, when I think about 
Afghanistan, I think about the incredible job that our troops have done. You ' 
ve been there more than the two of us combined. First time I was there in 2002 
, it was amazing to me what they were facing. When I went to the Ahgandah ( ph 
) Valley in Kandahar before the surge, I sat down with a young private in the 
82nd from the Monamanee ( ph ) Indian reservation who would tell me what he did 
every day, and I was in awe. And to see what they had in front of them. And 
then to go back there in December, to go throughout Helmand with the Marines, 
to see what they had accomplished, it ' s nothing short of amazing. What we don 
' t want to do is lose the **gains** we ' ve gotten. Now, we ' ve disagreed 
from time to time on a few issues. We would have more likely taken into 
accounts the recommendations from our commanders, General Petraeus, Admiral 
Mullen, on troop levels throughout this year ' s fighting season. We ' ve been 
skeptical about negotiations with the Taliban, especially while they ' re 
shooting at us. But we want to see the 2014 transition be successful, and that 
means we want to make sure our commanders have what they need to make sure that 
it is successful so that this does not once again become a launching pad for 
terrorists. 

Lemmas in this text that loaded on the factor:

gain 
