file = t001884
date = 2004-10-05
user = CHENEY
conversation = October_5,_2004_Transcript
URL = The_Cheney-Edwards_Vice_Presidential_Debate

word count = 303
words loading = 3
factor score = -3

The senator has got his facts **wrong** . I have not suggested there ' s a 
connection between Iraq and 9 / 11 , but there ' s clearly an established Iraqi 
track record with terror. And the point is that that ' s the place where you ' 
re most likely to see the terrorists come together with weapons of mass 
destruction, the deadly technologies that Saddam Hussein had developed and used 
over the years. Now, the fact of the matter is, the big difference here, Gwen, 
is they are not prepared to deal with states that sponsor terror. They ' ve got 
a very limited view about how to use U. S. military forces to **defend** 
America. We heard Senator Kerry say the other night that there ought to be some 
kind of global test before U. S. **troops** are deployed preemptively to 
protect the United States. That ' s part of a track record that goes back to 
the 1970s when he ran for Congress the first time and said **troops** should 
not be deployed without U. N. approval. Then, in the mid- ' 80s, he ran on the 
basis of cutting most of our major defense programs. In 1991 , he voted against 
Desert Storm. It ' s a consistent pattern over time of always being on the 
**wrong** side of defense issues. A little tough talk in the midst of a 
campaign or as part of a presidential debate cannot obscure a record of 30 
years of being on the **wrong** side of defense issues. And they give 
absolutely no indication, based on that record, of being wiling to go forward 
and aggressively pursue the war on terror with a kind of strategy that will 
work, that will defeat our enemies and will guarantee that the United States 
doesn ' t again get attacked by the likes of Al Qaida. 

Lemmas in this text that loaded on the factor:

defend (secondary)
troop (secondary)
wrong 
