file = t002208
date = 2000-10-11
user = GORE
conversation = October_11,_2000_Debate_Transcript
URL = The_Second_Gore-Bush_Presidential_Debate

word count = 305
words loading = 7
factor score = 14

Jim, I hope that we can come back to the subject of education because the 
governor made an extensive statement on it and I have a very different view 
than the one he expressed. But that having been said, I believe that — well, 
first of all, let me say that the governor and I agree on some things where 
this subject is concerned. I will not do anything to affect the rights of 
hunters or sportsmen. I think that homeowners have to be **respected** and 
their right to have a **gun** if they wish to. The problem I see is that there 
are too many **guns** getting into the hands of **children** , and 
**criminals** , and people who, for whatever reason, some kind of history of 
stalking or domestic abuse really should not be able to get **guns** . I think 
these **assault** weapons are a problem. So I favor closing the **gun** show 
loophole. In fact, I cast the tie-breaking vote to close it, but then the 
majority in the House of Representatives went the other way. That ' s still 
pending. If we could get agreement on that, maybe they could pass that in the 
final days of this Congress. I think we ought to restore the three-day waiting 
period under the Brady **Law** . I think we should toughen the **enforcement** 
of **gun** **laws** so that the ones that are already on the books can be 
enforced much more effectively. Some of the restrictions that have been placed 
by the Congress in the last couple of years. I think — in the last few years 
I think have been unfortunate. I think that we ought to make all schools 
**gun** free. Have a gun-free zone around every school in this country. I think 
that measures like these are important. **Child** safety trigger locks on a 
mandatory basis, and others. 

Lemmas in this text that loaded on the factor:

assault 
child 
criminal 
enforcement 
gun 
law 
respect 
