file = t003412
date = 1960-10-07
user = MR._NIXON
conversation = October_7,_1960_Debate_Transcript
URL = The_Second_Kennedy-Nixon_Presidential_Debate

word count = 284
words loading = 1
factor score = -3

I think Kenne- Senator Kennedy is wrong on three counts. First of all, he ' s 
wrong in thinking th- er- even suggesting that Mr. Khrushchev might have 
continued the **conference** if we had expressed regrets. He knew these flights 
were going on long before and that wasn ' t the reason that he broke up the 
**conference** . Second, he ' s wrong in the analogies that he makes. The 
United States is a strong country. Whenever we do anything that ' s wrong, we 
can express regrets. But when the president of the United States is doing 
something that ' s right, something that is for the purpose of defending the 
security of this country against surprise attack, he can never express regrets 
or apologize to anybody, including Mr. Khrushchev. Now in that connection 
Senator Kennedy has criticized the President on the ground not only of not 
expressing regrets, but because he allowed this flight to take place while the 
summit **conference** â€“ or immediately before the summit **conference** 
occurred. This seems to me is criticism that again is wrong on his part. We all 
remember Pearl Harbor. We lost three thousand American lives. We cannot afford 
an intelligence gap. And I just want to make my position absolutely clear with 
regard to getting intelligence information. I don ' t intend to see to it that 
the United States is ever in a position where, while we ' re negotiating with 
the Soviet Union, that we discontinue our intelligence effort. And I don ' t 
intend ever to express regrets to Mr. Khrushchev or anybody else if I ' m doing 
something that has the support of the Congress and that is right for the 
purpose of protecting the security of the United States. 

Lemmas in this text that loaded on the factor:

conference 
