file = t003073
date = 1984-10-07
user = MR._MONDALE
conversation = October_7,_1984_Debate_Transcript
URL = The_First_Reagan-Mondale_Presidential_Debate

word count = 334
words loading = 13
factor score = 33

My answer is that this campaign isn ' t over yet. And when **people** vote, I 
think you ' re going to see a very **strong** verdict by the **American** 
**people** that they favor the approach that I ' m talking about. The 
**American** **people** want **arms** **control** . They don ' t want this 
**arms** **race** . And they don ' t want this deadly new **effort** to bring 
**weapons** into the heavens. And they want an **American** **foreign** 
**policy** that **leads** toward a safer **world** . The **American** 
**people** see this debt, and they know it ' s got to come down. And if it won 
' t come down, the economy ' s going to slow down, maybe go into a recession. 
They see this tremendous influx and swamping of cheap **foreign** imports in 
this country that has cost over 3 million jobs, given farmers the worst year in 
**American** history. And they know this debt must come down as well, because 
it ' s unfair to our children. The **American** **people** want this 
environment protected. They know that these toxic waste dumps should have been 
cleaned up a long time ago, and they know that **people** ' s lives and health 
are being risked, because we ' ve had an administration that has been totally 
insensitive to the law and the demand for the protection of the environment. 
The **American** **people** want their children educated. They want to get our 
edge back in science, and they want a **policy** headed by the President that 
helps close this gap that ' s widening between the United **States** and Europe 
and Japan. The **American** **people** want to keep opening doors. They want 
those civil rights laws enforced. They want the equal rights amendment 
ratified. They want equal pay for comparable **effort** for women. And they 
want it because they ' ve understood from the beginning that when we open 
doors, we ' re all **stronger** , just as we were at the Olympics. I think as 
you make the case, the **American** **people** will increasingly come to our 
cause. 

Lemmas in this text that loaded on the factor:

american 
arm 
control 
effort 
foreign 
lead 
people 
policy 
race 
states 
strong 
weapon (secondary)
world 
