file = t002075
date = 2000-10-03
user = BUSH
conversation = October_3,_2000_Transcript
URL = The_First_Gore-Bush_Presidential_Debate

word count = 265
words loading = 10
factor score = 19

The first is, the difference is there is no new **accountability** measures in 
Vice President Gore ' s plan. He says he ' s for voluntary **testing** . You 
can ' t have voluntary **testing** . You must have mandatory **testing** . You 
must say that if you receive money you must show us whether or not children are 
**learning** to read and write and add and subtract. That ' s the difference. 
You may claim you ' ve got mandatory **testing** but you don ' t, Mr. Vice 
President. That ' s a huge difference. **Testing** is the cornerstone of 
reform. You know how I know? Because it ' s the cornerstone of reform in the 
State of Texas. Republicans and Democrats came together and said what can we do 
to make our **public** **education** the best in the country? We ' ve done a 
long way working together to do so. The cornerstone is to have strong 
**accountability** in **return** for money and in **return** for flexibility. 
We ' re going to ask you to show us whether or not — we ask you to post the 
results on the Internet. We encourage **parents** to take a look at the 
comparative results of **schools** . We have a strong charter **school** 
movement that I signed the legislation to get started in the State of Texas. I 
believe if we find poor children trapped in **schools** that won ' t teach, we 
need to free the **parents** . We need to expand **education** savings 
accounts. Something that the vice presidentâ€ trade_mark_e s running mate 
supports. There ' s big differences. He won ' t support freeing **local** 
**districts** from the strings of federal money. 

Lemmas in this text that loaded on the factor:

accountability 
district 
education 
learn 
local 
parent 
public (secondary)
return 
school 
testing 
