file = t001885
date = 2004-10-05
user = CHENEY
conversation = October_5,_2004_Transcript
URL = The_Cheney-Edwards_Vice_Presidential_Debate

word count = 361
words loading = 2
factor score = -3

Gwen, we ' ve never let up on Osama bin Laden from day one. We ' ve actively 
and aggressively pursued him. We ' ve captured or killed thousands of Al Qaida 
in various places around the world and especially in Afghanistan. We ' ll 
continue to very aggressively pursue him, and I ' m confident eventually we ' 
ll get him. The key to success in Afghanistan has been, again, to go in and go 
after the terrorists, which we ' ve done, and also take down the Taliban regime 
which allowed them to function there, in effect sponsors, if you will, of the 
Al Qaida organization. John Edwards, two and a half years ago, six months after 
we went into Afghanistan announced that it was chaotic, the **situation** was 
deteriorating, the warlords were about to take over. Here we are, two and a 
half years later, we ' re four days away from a democratic election, the first 
one in history in Afghanistan. We ' ve got 10 million voters who have 
registered to vote, nearly half of them women. That election will put in place 
a democratically elected government that will take over next December. We ' ve 
made enormous progress in Afghanistan, in exactly the right direction, in spite 
of what John Edwards said two and a half years ago. He just got it **wrong** . 
The fact is, as we go forward in Afghanistan, we will pursue Osama bin Laden 
and the terrorists as long as necessary. We ' re standing up Afghan security 
forces so they can take on responsibility for their own security. We ' ll keep 
U. S. forces there — we have about 16 , 000 there today — as long as 
necessary, to assist the Afghans in terms of dealing with their security 
**situation** . But they ' re making significant progress. We have President 
Karzai, who is in power. They have done wonders writing their own constitution 
for the first time ever. Schools are open. Young girls are going to school. 
Women are going to vote. Women are even eligible to run for office. This is 
major, major progress. There will be democracy in Afghanistan, make no doubt 
about it. Freedom is the best antidote to terror. 

Lemmas in this text that loaded on the factor:

situation 
wrong 
