file = t003473
date = 1960-10-21
user = MR._NIXON
conversation = October_21,_1960_Debate_Transcript
URL = The_Fourth_Kennedy-Nixon_Presidential_Debate

word count = 484
words loading = 4
factor score = -14

I would say that the issue will stay with us as a campaign issue just as long 
as Senator Kennedy persists in what I think is a fundamental error. He says he 
supports the President ' s position. He says that he voted for the 
**resolution** . Well just let me point this out; he voted for the 
**resolution** in 1955 which gave the president the power to use the forces of 
the United States to defend Formosa and the offshore **islands** . But he also 
voted then for an amendment – which was lost, fortunately – an amendment 
which would have drawn a line and left out those **islands** and denied the p- 
right to the president to defend those **islands** if he thought that it was an 
attack on Formosa. He repeated that error in 1959 , in the speech that he made. 
He repeated it again in a television debate that we had. Now, my point is this: 
Senator Kennedy has got to be consistent here. Either he ' s for the President 
and he ' s against the position that those who opposed the President in 
fifty-five and fifty-nine – and the Senator ' s position itself, stated the 
other day in our debate – either he is for the President and against that 
position or we simply have a disagreement here that must continue to be 
debated. Now if the Senator in his answer to this question will say " I now 
will depart, or retract my previous views; I think I was wrong in I 955 ; I 
think I was wrong in 1959 ; and I think I was wrong in our television debate to 
say that we should draw a line leaving out Quemoy and Matsu – draw a line in 
effect abandoning these **islands** to the **Communists** ; " then this will be 
right out of the campaign because there will be no issue between us. I support 
the President ' s position. I have always opposed drawing a line. I have 
opposed drawing a line because I know that the moment you draw a line, that is 
an encouragement for the **Communists** to attack – to step up their 
blackmail and to force you into the war that none of us want. And so I would 
hope that Senator Kennedy in his answer today would clear it up. It isn ' t 
enough for him to say " I support the President ' s position, that I voted for 
the **resolution** . " Of course, he voted for the **resolution** – it was 
virtually unanimous. But the point is, what about his error in voting for the 
amendment, which was not adopted, and then persisting in it in fifty-nine, 
persisting in it in the debate. It ' s very simple for him to clear it up. He 
can say now that he no longer believes that a line should be drawn leaving 
these **islands** out of the perimeter of defense. If he says that, this issue 
will not be discussed in the campaign. 

Lemmas in this text that loaded on the factor:

communists 
fifty 
island 
resolution 
