file = t001557
date = 2008-09-26
user = OBAMA
conversation = September_26,_2008_Debate_Transcript
URL = The_First_McCain-Obama_Presidential_Debate

word count = 402
words loading = 7
factor score = 13

Well, first of all, I think that we are safer in some ways. Obviously, we ' ve 
poured billions of dollars into airport security. We have done some work in 
terms of securing potential targets, but we still have a long way to go. We ' 
ve got to make sure that we ' re hardening our chemical sites. We haven ' t 
done enough in terms of transit; we haven ' t done enough in terms of ports. 
And the biggest **threat** that we face right now is not a **nuclear** 
**missile** coming over the skies. It ' s in a suitcase. This is why the issue 
of **nuclear** **proliferation** is so important. It is the — the biggest 
**threat** to the United States is a **terrorist** getting their hands on 
**nuclear** **weapons** . And we — we are spending billions of dollars on 
**missile** defense. And I actually believe that we need **missile** defense, 
because of Iran and North Korea and the potential for them to obtain or to 
launch **nuclear** **weapons** , but I also believe that, when we are only 
spending a few hundred million dollars on **nuclear** **proliferation** , then 
we ' re making a mistake. The other thing that we have to focus on, though, is 
Al Qaida. They are now operating in 60 countries. We can ' t simply be focused 
on Iraq. We have to go to the root cause, and that is in Afghanistan and 
Pakistan. That ' s going to be critical. We are going to need more cooperation 
with our **allies** . And one last point I want to make. It is important for us 
to understand that the way we are perceived in the world is going to make a 
difference, in terms of our capacity to get cooperation and root out terrorism. 
And one of the things that I intend to do as president is to restore America ' 
s standing in the world. We are less respected now than we were eight years ago 
or even four years ago. And this is the greatest country on Earth. But because 
of some of the mistakes that have been made — and I give Senator McCain great 
credit on the torture issue, for having identified that as something that 
undermines our long-term security — because of those things, we, I think, are 
going to have a lot of work to do in the next administration to restore that 
sense that America is that shining beacon on a hill. 

Lemmas in this text that loaded on the factor:

ally 
missile (secondary)
nuclear 
proliferation 
terrorist 
threat 
weapon 
