file = t003248
date = 1980-10-28
user = MR._CARTER
conversation = October_28,_1980_Debate_Transcript
URL = The_Carter-Reagan_Presidential_Debate

word count = 245
words loading = 9
factor score = 19

Barbara, one of the blights on this world is the **threat** and the activities 
of **terrorists** . At one of the recent economic **summit** conferences 
between myself and the other **leaders** of the western world, we committed 
ourselves to take strong action against terrorism. Airplane hijacking was one 
of the elements of that commitment. There is no doubt that we have seen in 
recent years – in recent months – additional **acts** of violence against 
Jews in France and, of course, against those who live in Israel, by the PLO and 
other **terrorist** organizations. Ultimately, the most serious **terrorist** 
**threat** is if one of those radical nations, who believe in terrorism as a 
policy, should have atomic **weapons** . Both I and all my predecessors have 
had a deep commitment to controlling the **proliferation** of **nuclear** 
**weapons** . In countries like Libya or Iraq, we have even alienated some of 
our closest **trade** partners because we have insisted upon the control of the 
spread of **nuclear** **weapons** to those potentially **terrorist** countries. 
When Governor Reagan has been asked about that, he makes the very disturbing 
comment that non-proliferation, or the control of the spread of **nuclear** 
**weapons** , is none of our business. And recently when he was asked 
specifically about Iraq, he said there is nothing we can do about it. This 
ultimate **terrorist** **threat** is the most fearsome of all, and it ' s part 
of a pattern where our country must stand firm to control terrorism of all 
kinds. 

Lemmas in this text that loaded on the factor:

act 
leader (secondary)
nuclear 
proliferation 
summit 
terrorist 
threat 
trade 
weapon 
