file = t001879
date = 2004-10-05
user = CHENEY
conversation = October_5,_2004_Transcript
URL = The_Cheney-Edwards_Vice_Presidential_Debate

word count = 364
words loading = 2
factor score = -4

Gwen, I want to thank you, and I want to thank the folks here at Case Western 
Reserve for hosting this tonight. It ' s a very important event, and they ' ve 
done a superb job of putting it together. It ' s important to look at all of 
our developments in Iraq within the broader context of the global war on 
terror. And, after 9 / 11 , it became clear that we had to do several things to 
have a successful strategy to win the global war on terror, specifically that 
we had to go after the terrorists wherever we might find them, that we also had 
to go after state **sponsors** of terror, those who might provide sanctuary or 
safe harbor for terror. And we also then finally had to stand up democracies in 
their stead afterwards, because that was the only way to guarantee that these 
states would not again become safe harbors for terror or for the development of 
deadly weapons. Concern about Iraq specifically focused on the fact that Saddam 
Hussein had been, for years, listed on the state **sponsor** of terror, that 
they he had established relationships with Abu Nidal, who operated out of 
Baghdad; he paid $25 , 000 to the families of suicide bombers; and he had an 
established relationship with Al Qaida. Specifically, look at George Tenet, the 
CIA director ' s testimony before the Committee on Foreign Relations two years 
ago when he talked about a 10-year relationship. The effort that we ' ve 
mounted with respect to Iraq focused specifically on the possibility that this 
was the most likely nexus between the terrorists and weapons of mass 
destruction. The biggest threat we faced today is the possibility of terrorists 
smuggling a nuclear weapon or a biological agent into one of our own cities and 
threatening the lives of hundreds of thousands of Americans. What we did in 
Iraq was exactly the right thing to do. If I had it to **recommend** all over 
again, I would **recommend** exactly the same course of action. The world is 
far safer today because Saddam Hussein is in jail, his government is no longer 
in power. And we did exactly the right thing. 

Lemmas in this text that loaded on the factor:

recommend 
sponsor 
