file = t002147
date = 2000-10-05
user = LIEBERMAN
conversation = October_5,_2000_Debate_Transcript
URL = The_Lieberman-Cheney_Vice_Presidential_Debate

word count = 304
words loading = 2
factor score = -3

I would be outraged. It is such an assault on the basic promise that America 
makes that the law will treat individuals as individuals regardless of their 
status. That is to say their race, their nationality, their gender, sexual 
orientation, etcetera, etcetera. And the sad fact is that racial profiling 
occurs in this country. I have a few African-American friends who have gone 
through this horror and, you know, it makes me want to kind of hit the wall 
because it ' s such an assault on their humanity and their citizenship. We can 
' t tolerate it anymore. That ' s why Iâ€ trade_mark_e ve supported 
**legislation** in the first instance in Congress. Because it ' s the most we 
could get done to do hard studies to make the case of the extent to which 
racial profiling is occurring in our country. But it ' s also why I ' m so 
proud that Al Gore said two things. First we would issue, if we ' re fortunate 
enough to be elected, an executive order prohibiting racial profiling. And 
secondly the first Civil Rights Act **legislation** we would send to Congress 
would be a national ban on racial profiling. It is just wrong. It is 
unAmerican, and to think that in the 21st Century this kind of nonsense is 
still going on. We have to stop it. The only way to stop it is through the law. 
The law, after all, is meant to express our values and our aspirations for our 
**society** . And our values are violently contradicted by the kind of racial 
profiling that I know exists. I had a friend a while ago who works in the 
government, works at the White House, African-American, stopped, surrounded by 
police for no other cause that anyone can determine than the color of his skin. 
That can ' t be in America anymore. 

Lemmas in this text that loaded on the factor:

legislation 
society 
