file = t003474
date = 1960-10-21
user = MR._KENNEDY
conversation = October_21,_1960_Debate_Transcript
URL = The_Fourth_Kennedy-Nixon_Presidential_Debate

word count = 356
words loading = 4
factor score = -15

Well, Mr. Nixon, to go back to 1955 . The **resolution** commits the president 
in the United States, which I supported, to defend uh â€“ Formosa, the 
Pescadores, and if it was his military judgment, these **islands** . Then the 
President sent a mission, composed of Admiral Radford and Mr. Robertson, to 
persuade Chiang Kai-shek in the spring of fifty-five to withdraw from the two 
**islands** , because they were exposed. The President was unsuccessful; Chiang 
Kai-shek would not withdraw. I refer to the fact that in 1958 , as a member of 
the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, I ' m very familiar with the position 
that the United States took in negotiating with the Chinese **Communists** on 
these two **islands** . General Twining, in January, fifty-nine, described the 
position of the United States. The position of the United States has been that 
this build-up, in the words of the president, has been foolish. Mr. Herter has 
said these **islands** are indefensible. Chiang Kai-shek will not withdraw. 
Because he will not withdraw, because he ' s committed to these **islands** , 
because we ' ve been unable to persuade him to withdraw, we are in a very 
difficult position. And therefore, the President ' s judgment has been that we 
should defend the **islands** if, in his military judgment and the judgment of 
the commander in the field, the attack on these **islands** should be part of 
an overall attack on Formosa. I support that. In view of the difficulties we ' 
ve had with the **islands** , in view of the difficulties and disputes we ' ve 
had with Chiang Kai-shek, that ' s the only position we can take. That ' s not 
the position you took, however. The first position you took, when this matter 
first came up, was that we should draw the line and commit ourselves, as a 
matter of principle, to defend these **islands** . Not as part of the defense 
of Formosa and the Pescadores. You showed no recognition of the Administration 
program to try to persuade Chiang Kai-shek for the last five years to withdraw 
from the **islands** . And I challenge you tonight to deny that the 
Administration has sent at least several missions to persuade Chiang Kai-shek ' 
s withdrawal from these **islands** . 

Lemmas in this text that loaded on the factor:

communists 
fifty 
island 
resolution 
