file = t003259
date = 1980-10-28
user = MR._CARTER
conversation = October_28,_1980_Debate_Transcript
URL = The_Carter-Reagan_Presidential_Debate

word count = 313
words loading = 13
factor score = 29

I don ' t think there ' s any doubt that, in the future, the cost of **oil** is 
going to go up. What I ' ve had as a basic commitment since I ' ve been 
President is to reduce our dependence on foreign **oil** . It can only be done 
in two ways: one, to conserve **energy** – to stop the waste of **energy** 
– and, secondly, to produce more American **energy** . We ' ve been very 
successful in both cases. We ' ve now reduced the **importing** of foreign 
**oil** in the last year alone by one-third. We **imported** today 2 million 
barrels of **oil** less than we did the same date just a year ago. This 
commitment has been opening up a very **bright** vista for our nation in the 
future, because with the windfall profits tax as a base, we now have an 
opportunity to use American technology and American ability and American 
**natural** resources to expand rapidly the **production** of synthetic fuels, 
yes; to expand rapidly the **production** of **solar** **energy** , yes; and 
also to produce the traditional kinds of American **energy** . We will 
**drill** more **oil** and **gas** wells this year than any year in history. We 
' ll produce more **coal** this year than any year in history. We are 
**exporting** more **coal** this year than any year in history. And we have an 
opportunity now with improved transportation systems and improved loading 
facilities in our ports, to see a very good opportunity on a world 
international **market** , to replace OPEC **oil** with American **coal** as a 
basic **energy** **source** . This exciting future will not only give us more 
**energy** security, but will also open up vast opportunities for Americans to 
live a better life and to have millions of new jobs associated with this new 
and very dynamic industry now in prospect because of the new **energy** policy 
that we ' ve put into effect. 

Lemmas in this text that loaded on the factor:

bright 
coal 
drill 
energy 
export 
gas 
import 
market 
natural 
oil 
production 
solar 
source 
