file = t002248
date = 2000-10-11
user = GORE
conversation = October_11,_2000_Debate_Transcript
URL = The_Second_Gore-Bush_Presidential_Debate

word count = 335
words loading = 13
factor score = 31

Jim, one of the issues that I would like to close with in my statement is 
**education** , because it ' s an example of the overall approach that I think 
is important. This race is about values, it ' s about change, it ' s about 
giving choices to the American people. And **education** is my number one 
priority, because I think that it ' s the most important big major change that 
we can bring in our country. I agree with Governor Bush that we should have new 
**accountability** , testing of **students** . I think that we should require 
states to test all **students** , test **schools** and **school** **districts** 
, and I think that we should go further and require **teacher** **testing** for 
new **teachers** also. The difference is that while my plan starts with new 
**accountability** and maintains **local** control, it doesn ' t stop there. 
Because I want to give new choices to **parents** . To send their **kids** to 
**college** with a $10 , 000 tax deduction for **college** **tuition** per 
child per year. I want to reduce the size of the **classrooms** in this 
country. For one basic reason, so that **students** can get more one-on-one 
time with **teachers** . And the way to do that is first to recruit more 
**teachers** . I ' ve a plan in my budget to recruit 100 , 000 new, highly 
qualified **teachers** and to help **local** **school** **districts** build new 
**schools** . I think that we have to put more emphasis on early learning and 
pre-school. Now, here is how that connects with all the rest of what we ' ve 
been talking about. If you have â€” if you squander the surplus on a huge tax 
cut that goes mostly to those at the top, then you can ' t make **education** 
the top priority. If the tax cut is your number one, two, three and four 
priority, you can ' t do **education** . You can ' t do both. You have to 
choose. I choose **education** and health care, the environment and retirement 
security, and I ask for your support. 

Lemmas in this text that loaded on the factor:

accountability 
classroom 
college 
district 
education 
kid 
local 
parent 
school 
student 
teacher 
testing 
tuition 
