file = t002284
date = 2000-10-17
user = BUSH
conversation = October_17,_2000_Debate_Transcript
URL = The_Third_Gore-Bush_Presidential_Debate

word count = 324
words loading = 5
factor score = 16

Well, I don ' t think I ran the ad. I think somebody who doesn ' t want me to 
be president might have run that ad. That wasn ' t my ad. I think it might have 
been one of my opponent ' s ads. Here is what I believe, sir. I believe 
law-abiding citizens ought to be allowed to protect themselves and their 
families. I believe that we ought to keep **guns** out of the hands of people 
that shouldn ' t have them. That ' s why I ' m for instant **background** 
**checks** at **gun** shows, I ' m for trigger locks, I think that makes sense. 
Matter of fact, we distributed free trigger locks in the State of Texas so that 
people can get them and put them on their **guns** to make their **guns** more 
safe. I think we ought to raise the age at which juveniles can have a **gun** . 
But I also believe strongly that we need to enforce **laws** on the books that 
the best way to make sure that we keep our society safe and secure is to hold 
people accountable for breaking the **law** . If we catch somebody illegally 
selling a **gun** , there needs to be a consequence. If we keep somebody â€” 
you know, illegally using a **gun** , there needs to be a consequence. 
**Enforcement** of **law** , and the federal government can help. There is a 
great program called Project Exile in Richmond, Virginia, where we focused 
federal taxpayers ' money and federal prosecutors and went after people who 
were illegally using **guns** . To me that ' s how you make society the safest 
it can be. And so, yeah, sometimes I agree with some of these groups in 
Washington and sometimes I don ' t. I ' m a pretty independent thinker. The one 
thing I ' m for is a safe society. And I ' m for enforcing **laws** on the 
books. And that ' s what is going to happen should I earn your confidence. 

Lemmas in this text that loaded on the factor:

background 
check 
enforcement 
gun 
law 
