file = t002152
date = 2000-10-05
user = LIEBERMAN
conversation = October_5,_2000_Debate_Transcript
URL = The_Lieberman-Cheney_Vice_Presidential_Debate

word count = 359
words loading = 8
factor score = 13

I have great **respect** for Dick Cheney. I don ' t agree with a lot of things 
he said in this campaign. But I have a lot of **respect** for him. He was a 
very distinguished Secretary of Defense, and I don ' t have anything negative 
to say about him. I want to say with the humility that is required to respond 
to this statement that I think what I would bring to the office of the vice 
presidency is a lifetimeâ€ trade_mark_e s experience. Growing up in a 
working class family, having the opportunity to go to a great **public** school 
system, then to go on to college and then to be drawn really by President 
Kennedy, as well as the values of service my family gave me, into **public** 
**life** . Wanting to make a difference. I have had extraordinary 
opportunities, thanks again to those folks back home in Connecticut, Â as a 
state senator, attorney general trying to enforce the **law** to protect them 
and the **environment** and consumers, and to litigate on behalf of **humans** 
rights. And for the last 12 years as a member of the Senate of the United 
States focusing on national security questions, environmental protection, 
economic growth and values. But perhaps what I most bring is a friendship and 
shared values and shared priorities with Al Gore. I have tremendous **respect** 
for Al Gore. I ' ve known him for 15 years. He ' s an outstanding person as a 
**public** official and as a private person. His **life** is built on his 
faith. It ' s devoted to his family. He volunteered for service in Vietnam from 
the beginning. In Congress he ' s been willing to take on the big interests and 
fight for average people. As vice president I think he ' s been the most 
effective vice president in the history of the United States and he has the 
right program to use the prosperity all the American people have earned to help 
particularly hard working middle-class families raise up their **children** to 
enjoy a better **life** . I think that ' s what this is all about, why I ' m so 
**proud** to be his running mate. 

Lemmas in this text that loaded on the factor:

child 
environment 
human (secondary)
law 
life 
proud 
public 
respect 
