file = t001975
date = 2004-09-30
user = KERRY
conversation = September_30._2004_Debate_Transcript
URL = The_First_Bush-Kerry_Presidential_Debate

word count = 280
words loading = 7
factor score = 10

What I think troubles a lot of people in our country is that the president has 
just sort of described one kind of mistake. But what he has said is that, even 
knowing there were no **weapons** of **mass** **destruction** , even knowing 
there was no imminent **threat** , even knowing there was no connection with Al 
Qaida, he would still have done everything the same way. Those are his words. 
Now, I would not. So what I ' m trying to do is just talk the truth to the 
American people and to the world. The truth is what good policy is based on. It 
' s what leadership is based on. The president says that I ' m denigrating 
these **troops** . I have nothing but respect for the British, Tony Blair, and 
for what they ' ve been willing to do. But you can ' t tell me that when the 
most **troops** any other country has on the ground is Great Britain, with 8 , 
300 , and below that the four others are below 4 , 000 , and below that, there 
isn ' t anybody out of the hundreds, that we have a genuine coalition to get 
this job done. You can ' t tell me that on the day that we went into that 
**war** and it started â€” it was principally the United States, the America 
and Great Britain and one or two others. That ' s it. And today, we are 90 
percent of the casualties and 90 percent of the costs. And meanwhile, North 
Korea has got **nuclear** **weapons** . Talk about mixed messages. The 
president is the one that said, " We can ' t allow countries to get **nuclear** 
**weapons** . " They have. I ' ll change that. 

Lemmas in this text that loaded on the factor:

destruction 
mass 
nuclear 
threat 
troop 
war (secondary)
weapon 
