file = t003200
date = 1984-10-21
user = THE_PRESIDENT
conversation = October_21,_1984_Debate_Transcript
URL = The_Second_Reagan-Mondale_Presidential_Debate

word count = 257
words loading = 4
factor score = 10

Well, I can ' t say that I have roundtabled that and sat down with the Chiefs 
of Staff, but I have said that it seems to me that this could be a logical step 
in what is my ultimate goal, my ultimate dream, and that is the elimination of 
**nuclear** **weapons** in the world. And it seems to me that this could be an 
adjunct, or certainly a great assisting agent in getting that done. I am not 
going to roll over, as Mr. Mondale suggests, and give them something that could 
turn around and be used against us. But I think it ' s a very interesting 
proposal, to see if we can find, first of all, something that renders those 
**weapons** obsolete, incapable of their mission. But Mr. Mondale seems to 
approve MAD — MAD is mutual assured **destruction** — meaning, if you use 
**nuclear** **weapons** on us, the only thing we have to keep you from doing it 
is that we ' ll kill as many people of yours as you ' ll kill of ours. I think 
that to do everything we can to find, as I say, something that would destroy 
**weapons** and not humans is a great step forward in human rights. Mr. 
Trewhitt. Mr. Mondale, could I ask you to address the question of **nuclear** 
**strategy** then? The formal doctrine is very arcane, but I ' m going to ask 
you to deal with it anyway. Do you believe in MAD, mutual assured 
**destruction** , mutual deterrence as it has been practiced for the last 
generation? 

Lemmas in this text that loaded on the factor:

destruction 
nuclear 
strategy 
weapon 
