file = t003106
date = 1984-10-07
user = MR._MONDALE
conversation = October_7,_1984_Debate_Transcript
URL = The_First_Reagan-Mondale_Presidential_Debate

word count = 591
words loading = 23
factor score = 36

I want to thank the League of Women Voters and the city of Louisville for 
hosting this evening ' s debate. I want to thank President Reagan for 
**agreeing** to debate. He didn ' t have to, and he did, and we all appreciate 
it. The President ' s favorite **question** is: Are you better off? Well, if 
you ' re wealthy, you ' re better off. If you ' re middle income, you ' re 
about where you were. And if you ' re modest income, you ' re worse off. That ' 
s what the economists tell us. But is that really the **question** that should 
be asked? Isn ' t the real **question** is will we be better off? Will our 
children be better off? Are we building the **future** that this **nation** 
needs? I believe that if we ask those **questions** that **bear** on our 
**future** , not just congratulate ourselves but challenge us to solve those 
problems, you ' ll see that we need new leadership. Are we **better** of with 
this **arms** **race** ? Will we be **better** off if we start this star 
**wars** escalation into the heavens? Are we better off when we deemphasize our 
values in **human** rights? Are we better off when we load our children with 
this fantastic debt? Would fathers and mothers **feel** proud of themselves if 
they loaded their children with debts like this **nation** is now — over a 
trillion **dollars** on the shoulders of our children? Can we say, really say 
that we will be **better** off when we pull away from sort of that basic 
**American** instinct of decency and fairness? I would rather lose a campaign 
about decency than win a campaign about self-interest. I don ' t think this 
**nation** is composed of **people** who care only for themselves. And when we 
**sought** to assault Social Security and Medicare, as the record shows we did, 
I think that was mean-spirited. When we terminated 400 , 000 desperate, 
hopeless, defenseless Americans who were on disability — confused and unable 
to **defend** themselves, and just laid them out on the street, as we did for 4 
years, I don ' t think that ' s what America is all about. America is a fair 
**society** , and it is not right that Vice President Bush pays less in taxes 
than the janitor who helps him. I believe there ' s fundamental fairness crying 
out that needs to be achieved in our tax system. I believe that we will be 
**better** off if we protect this environment. And contrary to what the 
President says, I think their record on the environment is inexcusable and 
often shameful. These laws are not being enforced, have not been enforced, and 
the public health and the air and the water are paying the price. That ' s not 
fair for our **future** . I think our **future** requires a President to 
**lead** us in an all-out search to advance our education, our learning, and 
our science and training, because this **world** is more complex and we ' re 
being pressed harder all the time. I believe in opening doors. We won the 
Olympics, in part, because we ' ve had civil rights laws and the laws that 
prohibit discrimination against women. I have been for those **efforts** all my 
life. The President ' s record is quite different. The **question** is our 
**future** . President Kennedy once said in response to similar arguments, " We 
are great, but we can be greater. " We can be **better** if we **face** our 
**future** , rejoice in our **strengths** , **face** our problems, and by 
solving them, build a **better** **society** for our children. Thank you. 

Lemmas in this text that loaded on the factor:

agree 
american 
arm 
bear (secondary)
defend 
dollar (secondary)
effort 
face 
feel 
future 
good 
human 
interest (secondary)
lead 
nation 
people 
question 
race 
seek 
society (secondary)
strength 
war 
world 
