file = t002795
date = 1992-10-19
user = GOVERNOR_CLINTON
conversation = October_19,_1992_Debate_Transcript
URL = The_Third_Clinton-Bush-Perot_Presidential_Debate

word count = 326
words loading = 29
factor score = 52

No. There are many **people** who believe that the only way we can get this 
country turned around is to **tax** the **middle** **class** more and punish 
them more, but the truth is that middle-class Americans are basically the only 
group of Americans who ' ve been **taxed** more in the 1980s and during the 
last 12 years, even though their **incomes** have gone down. The **wealthiest** 
Americans have been **taxed** much less, even though their **incomes** have 
gone up. Middle-class **people** will have their **fair** share of changing to 
do, and many challenges to face, including the challenge of becoming constantly 
re-educated. But my **plan** is a departure from trickle-down **economics** , 
just **cutting** **taxes** on the **wealthiest** Americans and getting out of 
the way. It ' s also a departure from tax-and- spend **economics** , because 
you can ' t **tax** and divide an **economy** that isn ' t growing. I 
**propose** an American version of what **works** in other countries â€” I 
think we can do it better: invest and **grow** . I believe we can **increase** 
**investment** and reduce the **deficit** at the same time, if we not only ask 
the **wealthiest** Americans and foreign corporations to **pay** their share; 
we also provide over $100 **billion** in **tax** **relief** , in terms of 
incentives for new plants, new **small** **businesses** , new technologies, new 
housing, and for **middle** **class** **families** ; and we have $140 
**billion** of **spending** **cuts** . Invest and **grow** . **Raise** some 
more **money** , spend the **money** on **tax** incentives to have **growth** 
in the **private** **sector** , take the **money** from the defense **cuts** 
and reinvest it in new transportation and communications and environmental 
clean-up systems. This will **work** . On this, as on so many other issues, I 
have a fundamental difference from the present administration. I don ' t 
believe trickle down **economics** will **work** . Unemployment is up. Most 
**people** are **working** harder for less **money** than they were making 10 
years ago. I think we can do better if we have the courage to change. 

Lemmas in this text that loaded on the factor:

billion 
business 
class 
cut 
deficit 
economics 
economy 
fair 
family 
grow 
growth 
income 
increase 
investment 
middle 
money 
pay 
people (secondary)
plan 
private 
propose 
raise 
relief 
sector 
small 
spending 
tax 
wealthy 
work (secondary)
