file = t003387
date = 1960-09-26
user = SENATOR_KENNEDY
conversation = September_26,_1960_Debate_Transcript
URL = The_First_Kennedy-Nixon_Presidential_Debate

word count = 1269
words loading = 43
factor score = 80

Mr. Smith, Mr. Nixon. In the election of 1860 , Abraham Lincoln said the 
**question** was whether this **nation** could exist half-slave or half-free. 
In the election of 1960 , and with the **world** around us, the **question** is 
whether the **world** will exist half-slave or half-free, whether it will 
**move** in the direction of **freedom** , in the direction of the road that we 
are taking, or whether it will **move** in the direction of slavery. I think it 
will depend in great measure upon what we do here in the United **States** , on 
the kind of **society** that we build, on the kind of **strength** that we 
maintain. We discuss tonight domestic issues, but I would not want that to be 
any implication to be given that this does not **involve** directly our 
**struggle** with Mr. Khrushchev for survival. Mr. Khrushchev is in New York, 
and he maintains the **Communist** offensive throughout the **world** because 
of the productive **power** of the Soviet Union itself. The Chinese 
**Communists** have always had a large population. But they are important and 
**dangerous** now because they are mounting a major **effort** within their own 
country. The kind of country we have here, the kind of **society** we have, the 
kind of **strength** we build in the United **States** will be the defense of 
**freedom** . If we do well here, if we meet our obligations, if we ' re 
**moving** ahead, then I think **freedom** will be secure around the **world** 
. If we fail, then **freedom** fails. Therefore, I think the **question** 
before the **American** **people** is: Are we doing as much as we can do? Are 
we as **strong** as we should be? Are we as **strong** as we must be if we ' re 
going to maintain our independence, and if we ' re going to maintain and hold 
out the hand of friendship to those who look to us for assistance, to those who 
look to us for survival? I should make it very clear that I do not think we ' 
re doing enough, that I am not satisfied as an **American** with the progress 
that we ' re making. This is a great country, but I think it could be a greater 
country; and this is a powerful country, but I think it could be a more 
powerful country. I ' m not satisfied to have fifty percent of our steel-mill 
capacity unused. I ' m not satisfied when the United **States** had last year 
the lowest rate of economic growth of any major industrialized **society** in 
the **world** . Because economic growth means **strength** and vitality; it 
means we ' re able to sustain our defenses; it means we ' re able to meet our 
commitments abroad. I ' m not satisfied when we have over nine billion 
**dollars** worth of food – some of it rotting – even though there is a 
hungry **world** , and even though four million Americans wait every **month** 
for a food package from the **government** , which averages five cents a 
**day** per individual. I saw cases in West Virginia, here in the United 
**States** , where children took home part of their **school** lunch in 
**order** to feed their families because I don ' t think we ' re meeting our 
obligations toward these Americans. I ' m not satisfied when the Soviet Union 
is turning out twice as many scientists and engineers as we are. I ' m not 
satisfied when many of our teachers are inadequately paid, or when our children 
go to **school** part-time shifts. I think we should have an educational system 
second to none. I ' m not satisfied when I see men like Jimmy Hoffa – in 
charge of the largest union in the United **States** – still **free** . I ' m 
not satisfied when we are failing to develop the **natural** resources of the 
United **States** to the fullest. Here in the United **States** , which 
developed the Tennessee Valley and which built the Grand Coulee and the other 
dams in the Northwest United **States** at the present rate of hydropower 
**production** – and that is the hallmark of an industrialized **society** 
– the Soviet Union by 1975 will be producing more **power** than we are. 
These are all the things, I think, in this country that can make our 
**society** **strong** , or can mean that it stands still. I ' m not satisfied 
until every **American** enjoys his full constitutional rights. If a Negro baby 
is **born** – and this is true also of Puerto Ricans and Mexicans in some of 
our cities – he has about one-half as much chance to get through **high** 
**school** as a white baby. He has one-third as much chance to get through 
college as a white **student** . He has about a third as much chance to be a 
professional man, about half as much chance to own a house. He has about uh – 
four times as much chance that he ' ll be out of **work** in his life as the 
white baby. I think we can do better. I don ' t want the talents of any 
**American** to go to waste. I know that there are those who want to turn 
everything over to the **government** . I don ' t at all. I want the 
individuals to meet their **responsibilities** . And I want the states to meet 
their **responsibilities** . But I think there is also a **national** 
**responsibility** . The argument has been used against every piece of social 
**legislation** in the last twenty-five years. The **people** of the United 
**States** individually could not have developed the Tennessee Valley; 
collectively they could have. A cotton farmer in Georgia or a peanut farmer or 
a dairy farmer in Wisconsin and Minnesota, he cannot protect himself against 
the **forces** of supply and demand in the market **place** ; but **working** 
together in effective governmental **programs** he can do so. Seventeen million 
Americans, who live over sixty-five on an average Social **Security** **check** 
of about seventy-eight **dollars** a **month** , they ' re not able to sustain 
themselves individually, but they can sustain themselves through the social 
**security** system. I don ' t believe in big **government** , but I believe in 
effective governmental **action** . And I think that ' s the only way that the 
United **States** is going to maintain its **freedom** . It ' s the only way 
that we ' re going to **move** ahead. I think we can do a **better** job. I 
think we ' re going to have to do a **better** job if we are going to meet the 
**responsibilities** which time and events have **placed** upon us. We cannot 
turn the job over to anyone else. If the United **States** fails, then the 
whole cause of **freedom** fails. And I think it depends in great measure on 
what we do here in this country. The reason Franklin Roosevelt was a **good** 
neighbor in Latin America was because he was a **good** neighbor in the United 
**States** . Because they **felt** that the **American** **society** was 
**moving** again. I want us to recapture that image. I want **people** in Latin 
America and Africa and Asia to start to look to America; to see how we ' re 
doing things; to wonder what the resident of the United **States** is doing; 
and not to look at Khrushchev, or look at the Chinese **Communists** . That is 
the obligation upon our generation. In 1933 , Franklin Roosevelt said in his 
inaugural that this generation of Americans has a rendezvous with destiny. I 
think our generation of Americans has the same rendezvous. The **question** now 
is: Can **freedom** be maintained under the most severe tack – attack it has 
ever known? I think it can be. And I think in the final analysis it depends 
upon what we do here. I think it ' s time America started **moving** again. 

Lemmas in this text that loaded on the factor:

action 
american 
bear (secondary)
check (secondary)
communist 
communists (secondary)
dangerous (secondary)
day 
dollar (secondary)
effort 
feel 
force 
free 
freedom 
good 
government 
high (secondary)
involve 
legislation (secondary)
month 
move 
nation 
national 
natural (secondary)
order 
people 
place 
power 
production (secondary)
program (secondary)
question 
responsibility 
school (secondary)
security 
society (secondary)
states 
strength 
strong 
struggle 
student (secondary)
twenty 
work 
world 
