file = t002957
date = 1988-10-05
user = BENTSEN
conversation = October_5,_1988_Debate_Transcripts
URL = The_Bentsen-Quayle_Vice_Presidential_Debate

word count = 386
words loading = 4
factor score = 9

Well, I ' ve supported that. I voted for the 50 , 000 limitation to get away 
from the million dollar contributions to **farmer** . You know, of the four 
that are on this ticket, I ' m the only on that was born and reared on a 
**farm** and still involved in farming, so I think I understand their concerns 
and their problems. Now, I feel very strongly that we ought to be doing more 
for the American **farmer** and what we ' ve seen under this administration is 
neglect of that **farmer** . We ' ve seen them drive 220 , 000 **farmers** off 
the **farm** . They seem to think the answer is move them to town, but we ought 
not to be doing that. What you have seen them do is cut the **farm** assistance 
for the rural areas by over 50 percent. We ' re seeing rural hospitals close 
all over the country because of this kind of an administration. We ' ve seen an 
administration that has lost much of our **market** abroad, because they have 
not had a **trade** policy. We saw our **market** loss by some 40 percent. And 
that ' s one of the reasons that we ' ve seen the cost of the **farm** program, 
which was only about two and a half billion dollars when they took office, now 
go to about $25 billion. Now, we can bring that kind of a cost down and get 
more to **market** prices if we ' ll have a good **trade** policy. I was in 
January visiting with Mr. Takeshita, the new Prime Minister of Japan. I said, " 
You ' re paying five times as much for beef as we pay for our in country â€“ 
pay for it in our country, six times as much for rice. You have a $60 billion 
**trade** surplus with us. You could improve the standard of living of your 
people. You ' re spending 27 percent of your disposable income. We spend 14 or 
15 percent. " " When you have that kind of barrier up against us, that ' s not 
free and fair **trade** and we don ' t believe that should continue. " We would 
be pushing very hard to open up those **markets** and stand up for the American 
**farmer** and see that we recapture those foreign **markets** and I think we 
can do it with the Dukakis-Bentsen administration. 

Lemmas in this text that loaded on the factor:

farm 
farmer (secondary)
market 
trade (secondary)
