file = t003008
date = 1988-10-13
user = BUSH
conversation = October_13,_1988_Debate_Transcript
URL = The_Second_Bush-Dukakis_Presidential_Debate

word count = 375
words loading = 8
factor score = 12

If I knew of three new **weapons** systems that I thought were purely waste and 
weren ' t protected by the Congress, they wouldn ' t be in the budget. They 
would not be in the budget, but you want one now? I ' ll give you one, that 
HMET, that heavy truck, that ' s cost what is it $850 million and the Pentagon 
didn ' t request it and, yet, a member of Congress, a very powerful one, put it 
in the budget. I think we can save money through this whole very sophisticated 
concept, Andrea, that I know you do understand of competitive **strategies** . 
It is new and it is very very different than what ' s happened, but it ' s not 
quite ready to be totally implemented. But it ' s very important. I think we 
can say, through the Packard Commission Report and I ' m very proud that David 
Packard, the originator of that report, is strongly supporting me. So, it ' s 
not a question of saying our budget is full of a lot of waste. I don ' t 
believe that. I do think this. We ' re in the serious stages of **negotiation** 
with the Soviet Union on the **strategic** arms control talks. And we ' re 
protecting a couple of options in terms of modernizing our **strategic** 
**forces** . My Secretary of Defense is going to have to make a very difficult 
decision in which system to go forward with. But we are protecting both of 
them. We are moving forward with **negotiations** and, you see, I just think it 
would be dumb **negotiating** policy with the **Soviets** to cut out one or the 
other of the two options right now. The **Soviets** are modernizing. They 
continue to modernize and we can ' t simply we ' ve got enough **nuclear** 
**weapons** , let ' s freeze. We can ' t do that. We have to have 
modernization, especially if we achieve the 50 percent reduction in 
**strategic** **weapons** that our President is taking the leadership to 
attain. And, so, that ' s the way I ' d reply to it and I believe we can have 
the strongest and best defense possible if we modernize, if we go forward with 
competitive **strategies** and if we do follow through on the Packard 
Commission report. 

Lemmas in this text that loaded on the factor:

force (secondary)
negotiate 
negotiation 
nuclear 
soviets (secondary)
strategic 
strategy 
weapon 
