file = t002648
date = 1992-10-13
user = GORE
conversation = October_13,_1992_Debate_Transcript
URL = The_Gore-Quayle-Stockdale_Vice_Presidential_Debate

word count = 241
words loading = 4
factor score = 8

Bill Clinton and I believe we can **create** millions of new jobs by leading 
the **environmental** revolution instead of dragging our feet and bringing up 
the rear. You know, Japan and Germany are both opening proclaiming to the world 
now that the biggest new **market** in the history of world business is the 
**market** for the new products and technologies that foster economic progress 
without **environmental** destruction. Why is the Japanese business 
organization — the largest one they have, the Ki Den Ren ( phonetic ) , 
arguing for tougher **environmental** standards than those embodied in US law? 
Why is MITI — their **trade** organization — calling on all Japanese 
corporations everywhere in the world to exceed by as much as possible the 
**environmental** standards of every country in which they ' re operating? 
Well, maybe they ' re just dumb about business competition. But maybe they know 
something that George Bush and Dan Quayle don ' t know — that the future will 
call for greater efficiency and greater **environmental** efficiency. This is a 
value an issue that touches my basic values. I ' m taught in my religious 
tradition that we are given dominion over the Earth, but we ' re required to be 
good stewards of the Earth, and that means to take care of it. We ' re not 
doing that now under the Bush-Quayle policies. They have gutted the Clean Air 
Act. They have broken his pledge to be the **environmental** president. Bill 
Clinton and I will change that. 

Lemmas in this text that loaded on the factor:

create (secondary)
environmental 
market 
trade (secondary)
