file = t001323
date = 2012-10-16
user = OBAMA
conversation = October_16,_2012_Debate_Transcript
URL = PRESIDENT_BARACK_OBAMA_AND_FORMER_GOV._MITT_ROMNEY_PARTICIPATE_IN_A_CANDIDATES_DEBATE,_HOFSTRA_UNIVERSITY,_HEMPSTEAD,_NEW_YORK

word count = 458
words loading = 15
factor score = 16

Jeremy, first of all, your future is **bright** . And the fact that you ' re 
making an **investment** in higher education is critical. Not just to you, but 
to the entire nation. Now, the most important thing we can do is to make sure 
that we are **creating** jobs in this country. But not just jobs, good paying 
jobs. Ones that can support a family. And what I want to do, is build on the 
five million jobs that we ' ve **created** over the last 30 months in the 
private **sector** alone. And there are a bunch of things we can do to make 
sure your future is **bright** . Number one, I want to build manufacturing jobs 
in this country again. Now when Governor Romney said we should let Detroit go 
bankrupt. I said we ' re going to bet on American workers and the American auto 
industry and it ' s come surging back. I want to do that in industries, not 
just in Detroit, but all across the country and that means we change our tax 
code so we ' re giving incentives to companies that are investing here in the 
United States and **creating** jobs here. It also means we ' re helping them 
and small businesses to **export** all around the world to new **markets** . 
Number two, we ' ve got to make sure that we have the best education system in 
the world. And the fact that you ' re going to college is great, but I want 
everybody to get a great education and we ' ve worked hard to make sure that 
student **loans** are available for folks like you, but I also want to make 
sure that community colleges are offering slots for workers to get retrained 
for the jobs that are out there right now and the jobs of the future. Number 
three, we ' ve got to control our own **energy** . Now, not only **oil** and 
**natural** **gas** , which we ' ve been investing in; but also, we ' ve got to 
make sure we ' re building the **energy** **source** of the future, not just 
thinking about next year, but ten years from now, 20 years from now. That ' s 
why we ' ve invested in **solar** and **wind** and biofuels, **energy** 
efficient cars. We ' ve got to reduce our deficit, but we ' ve got to do it in 
a **balanced** way. Asking the wealthy to pay a little bit more along with cuts 
so that we can invest in education like yours. And let ' s take the money that 
we ' ve been spending on war over the last decade to rebuild America, roads, 
bridges schools. We do those things, not only is your future going to be 
**bright** but America ' s future is going to **bright** as well. 

Lemmas in this text that loaded on the factor:

balanced (secondary)
bright 
create (secondary)
energy 
export 
gas 
investment (secondary)
loan 
market 
natural 
oil 
sector (secondary)
solar 
source 
wind 
