file = t003228
date = 1980-09-21
user = REAGAN
conversation = September_21,_1980_Debate_Transcript
URL = The_Anderson-Reagan_Presidential_Debate

word count = 553
words loading = 21
factor score = 32

Before beginning my closing remarks, here, I would just like to remark a 
concern that I have that we have criticized the **failures** of the Carter 
**policy** here rather considerably, both of us this evening. And there might 
be some feeling of unfairness about this because he was not here to respond. 
But I believe it would have been much more unfair to have had John Anderson 
denied the right to participate in this debate. And I want to **express** my 
appreciation to the League of Women Voters for adopting a course with which I 
believe the great majority of Americans are in **agreement** . Now, as to my 
closing remarks: I ' ve always believed that this land was **placed** here 
between the two great oceans by some divine plan. That it was **placed** here 
to be found by a special kind of **people** – **people** who had a special 
love for **freedom** and who had the courage to uproot themselves and leave 
hearth and homeland, and came to what, in the beginning, was the most 
undeveloped wilderness possible. We came from 100 different corners of the 
earth. We spoke a multitude of tongues. We landed on this Eastern shore and 
then went out over the mountains and the prairies and the deserts and the far 
western mountains to the Pacific, building cities and towns and farms, and 
**schools** and churches. If wind, water or fire destroyed them, we built them 
again. And in so doing, at the same time, we built a new breed of **human** 
called an **American** – a proud, an independent. , and a most compassionate 
individual, for the most part. Two hundred years ago, Tom Paine, when the 13 
tiny colonies were trying to become a **nation** , said, we have it in our 
**power** to begin the **world** over again. **Today** . we ' re confronted 
with the horrendous problems that we ' ve discussed here tonight. And some 
**people** in **high** **positions** of leadership, tell us that the answer is 
to retreat. That the **best** is over. That we must cut back. That we must 
share in an ever-increasing scarcity. That we must, in the **failure** to be 
able to protect our **national** **security** as it is **today** , we must not 
be provocative to any possible adversary. Well, we, the living Americans, have 
gone through four **wars** . We ' ve gone through a Great Depression in our 
lifetime that literally was worldwide and almost brought us to our knees. But 
we came through all of those things and we achieved even new heights and new 
greatness. The living Americans **today** have fought harder, paid a **higher** 
price for **freedom** , and done more to advance the dignity of man than any 
**people** who ever lived on this earth. For 200 years, we ' ve lived in the 
**future** , believing that tomorrow would be **better** than **today** , and 
**today** would be **better** than yesterday. I still believe that. I ' m not 
running for the Presidency because I believe that I can solve the problems we ' 
ve discussed tonight. I believe the **people** of this country can, and 
together, we can begin the **world** over again. We can meet our destiny – 
and that destiny to build a land here that will be, for all mankind, a shining 
city on a hill. I think we ought to get at it. 

Lemmas in this text that loaded on the factor:

agreement 
american 
express 
failure 
freedom 
future 
good 
high (secondary)
human 
nation 
national 
people 
place 
policy 
position 
power 
school (secondary)
security 
today 
war 
world 
