file = t001818
date = 2004-10-08
user = BUSH
conversation = October_8,_2004_Debate_Transcript
URL = The_Second_Bush-Kerry_Presidential_Debate

word count = 323
words loading = 2
factor score = -3

Two days ago in the Oval Office, I met with the finance minister from Iraq. He 
came to see me. And he talked about how optimistic he was and the country was 
about heading toward elections. Think about it - They ' re going from tyranny 
to elections. He talked about the reconstruction efforts that are beginning to 
take hold. He talked about the fact that Iraqis love to be free. He said he was 
optimistic when he came here, then he turned on the TV and listened to the 
political rhetoric and all of a sudden he was pessimistic. Now, this is guy a 
who, along with others, has taken great risk for great freedom. And we need to 
stand with him. My opponent says he has a plan; it sounds familiar, because it 
' s called the Bush plan. We ' re going to train **troops** , and we are. We ' 
ll have 125 , 000 trained by the end of December. We ' re spending about $7 
billion. He talks about a grand idea - Let ' s have a summit; we ' re going to 
solve the problem in Iraq by holding a summit. And what is he going to say to 
those people that show up at the summit? Join me in the **wrong** war at the 
**wrong** time at the **wrong** place. Risk your **troops** in a war you ' ve 
called a mistake. Nobody is going to follow somebody who doesn ' t believe we 
can succeed and with somebody who says that war where we are is a mistake. I 
know how these people think. I meet with them all the time. I talk to Tony 
Blair all the time. I talk to Silvio Berlusconi. They ' re not going to follow 
an American president who says follow me into a mistake. Our plan is working. 
We ' re going to make elections. And Iraq is going to be free, and America will 
be better off for it. 

Lemmas in this text that loaded on the factor:

troop (secondary)
wrong 
