file = t003013
date = 1988-10-13
user = DUKAKIS
conversation = October_13,_1988_Debate_Transcript
URL = The_Second_Bush-Dukakis_Presidential_Debate

word count = 372
words loading = 8
factor score = 13

Well, I think when I think of heroes, I think back, not presently, Ann. But 
there are many people who I admire in this country today. Some of them are in 
**public** **life** in the Senate, the Congress. Some of my fellow governors 
who are real heroes to me. I think of those young athletes who represented us 
at the Olympics were tremendously impressive. We were **proud** of them. We 
felt strongly about them, and they did so well by us. I can think of doctors 
and scientists, Jonas Salk who for example discovered a vaccine which cured one 
of the most dread diseases we ever had. And he ' s a hero. I think of classroom 
teachers, classroom teachers that I have had, classroom teachers that 
youngsters have today who are real heroes to our young people. Because they 
inspire them. They teach them. But more than that, they are role models. 
Members of the clergy who have done the same. **Drug** counselors out there in 
the **street** who are providing help to youngsters who come up to me and 
others who ask for help and want help, are doing the hard work, the heroic 
work, which it takes to provide that kind of leadership, that kind of 
counseling, that kind of support. I think of people in the **law** 
**enforcement** community who are taking their **lives** in their hands 
everyday, when they go up to one of those doors and kick it down and try to 
stop this flow of **drugs** into our communities and into our **kids** . So 
there are many, many heroes in this country today. These are people that give 
of themselves everyday and every week and every month. In many cases they are 
people in the community who are examples, and are role models. And I would hope 
that one of the things I could do as president is to recognize them, to give 
them the kind of recognition that they need and deserve so that more and more 
young people can themselves become the heroes of tomorrow, can go into 
**public** service, can go into teaching, can go into **drug** counseling, can 
go into **law** **enforcement** , and be heroes themselves to generations yet 
to come. 

Lemmas in this text that loaded on the factor:

drug 
enforcement 
kid (secondary)
law 
life 
proud 
public 
street 
