file = t002136
date = 2000-10-05
user = LIEBERMAN
conversation = October_5,_2000_Debate_Transcript
URL = The_Lieberman-Cheney_Vice_Presidential_Debate

word count = 330
words loading = 6
factor score = 10

Bernie, we agree on the problem but we couldn ' t disagree more on the response 
to the problem. The problem is accurately stated. No matter how strong we are 
economically, if we remain dependent on a **source** of **energy** that is 
outside our control, we ' re not going to be as strong as we should be. Others 
around the world can effectively yank our chain, and we cannot allow that to 
continue to happen. I ' m afraid that our opponent ' s response to this is 
one-sided, and it is essentially to develop the resources within the United 
States almost regardless of where. I ' m against drilling in the Arctic Refuge. 
This is one of the most beautiful, pristine places that the good Lord has 
**created** on earth. It happens to be within the United States of America. It 
' s not worth it to do that for what seems to be the possibility of six months 
' worth of **oil** , seven to 12 years from now. That ' s not much of a 
response to the immediate problem that gasoline consumers and home heating 
**oil** customers are facing this winter. There are more resources within the 
United States that we can develop. This isn ' t mentioned much and appreciated 
much. In the last eight years **drilling** for **gas** on federal lands has 
gone up 60 % and it ' s been done in an environmentally protected way. The 
administration has encouraged the drilling for deep **gas** and **oil** going 
on in the western Gulf today. The answer here is new technology that will 
**create** millions of new jobs. Let me just say this. If we can get three 
miles more per gallon from our cars we ' ll get a â€” we ' ll save 1 million 
barrels of **oil** a day, which is exactly what the refuge at its best in 
Alaska would produce. The choice to me is clear. We have to develop fuel cells, 
alternative **energy** , encourage people to conserve and to be efficient. 

Lemmas in this text that loaded on the factor:

create (secondary)
drill 
energy 
gas 
oil 
source 
