file = t002112
date = 2000-10-05
user = LIEBERMAN
conversation = October_5,_2000_Debate_Transcript
URL = The_Lieberman-Cheney_Vice_Presidential_Debate

word count = 331
words loading = 13
factor score = 18

Al Gore and I are committed to making America ' s **public** **schools** the 
best in the world. I disagree with what my opponent has said. A lot of progress 
has been made in recent years. Average **testing** scores are up and a lot of 
extraordinary work is being done by tens of thousands of **parents** , 
**teachers** and administrators all around America. There is more to be done. 
If you ' ll allow me, I want to go back to your last question. It leads to this 
question. I think both of us agree that leaving aside the Social Security and 
Medicare surpluses, there ' s $1 . 8 trillion in surplus available to spend 
over the next ten years. As I said before we ' re being fiscally responsible 
about it. We ' re taking $300 billion off the top to put in reserve fund. The 
rest we ' ll use for middle **class** tax cuts and invest in programs like 
**education** . There ' s a big difference between these two tickets. Our 
opponents are going to spend $1 . 6 trillion of the $1 . 8 trillion surplus 
projected on that big tax cut that Al Gore talked about the other night so 
effectively. We ' re saving money to invest in **education** . You cannot 
reform **education** and improve it in this country without spending some 
money. Al Gore and I have committed $170 billion for that purpose. To recruit 
100 , 000 new **teachers** to reduce the size of **classrooms** . To help 
**local** **school** **districts** build new buildings so our children are not 
**learning** in crumbling **classrooms** . And we ' re not just going to stop 
at high **school** . We ' re going to go on and give the middle **class** the 
ability to deduct up to $10 , 000 a year in the cost of **college** **tuition** 
. Now, that is a tremendous life-saving change which will help people carry on 
their **education** and allow them to develop the kinds of skills that will 
help them succeed in the hi-tech economy of today. 

Lemmas in this text that loaded on the factor:

class (secondary)
classroom 
college 
district 
education 
learn 
local 
parent 
public (secondary)
school 
teacher 
testing 
tuition 
