file = t000566
date = 2016-09-26
user = CLINTON
conversation = September_26,_2016_Debate_Transcript
URL = Presidential_Debate_at_Hofstra_University_in_Hempstead,_New_York

word count = 326
words loading = 10
factor score = 23

Well, you ' re right. Race remains a significant challenge in our country. 
Unfortunately, race still determines too much, often determines where people 
live, determines what kind of education in their **public** schools they can 
get, and, yes, it determines how they ' re treated in the **criminal** 
**justice** system. We ' ve just seen those two tragic examples in both Tulsa 
and Charlotte. And we ' ve got to do several things at the same time. We have 
to restore trust between communities and the **police** . We have to work to 
make sure that our **police** are using the best training, the best techniques, 
that they ' re well prepared to use force only when necessary. Everyone should 
be **respected** by the **law** , and everyone should **respect** the **law** . 
Right now, that ' s not the case in a lot of our neighborhoods. So I have, ever 
since the first day of my campaign, called for **criminal** **justice** 
**reform** . I ' ve laid out a platform that I think would begin to remedy some 
of the problems we have in the **criminal** **justice** system. But we also 
have to recognize, in addition to the challenges that we face with **policing** 
, there are so many good, brave **police** **officers** who equally want 
**reform** . So we have to bring communities together in order to begin working 
on that as a mutual goal. And we ' ve got to get **guns** out of the hands of 
people who should not have them. The **gun** epidemic is the leading cause of 
**death** of young African- American men, more than the next nine causes put 
together. So we have to do two things, as I said. We have to restore trust. We 
have to work with the **police** . We have to make sure they **respect** the 
communities and the communities **respect** them. And we have to tackle the 
plague of **gun** violence, which is a big contributor to a lot of the problems 
that we ' re seeing today. 

Lemmas in this text that loaded on the factor:

criminal 
death 
gun 
justice 
law 
officer 
police 
public 
reform (secondary)
respect 
