file = t002911
date = 1988-09-25
user = DUKAKIS
conversation = September_25,_1988_Debate_Transcript
URL = The_First_Bush-Dukakis_Presidential_Debate

word count = 404
words loading = 19
factor score = 32

Of course not. Of course that ' s a charge that ' s always made against any 
governor who runs for the presidency. I think it was one of the things that Mr. 
Bush said about Mr. Reagan back in 1980 . Remember that, George? And yet some 
of our finest **presidents** , some of our **strongest** international 
**leaders** were governors-Franklin Roosevelt, Woodrow Wilson, Theodore 
Roosevelt. Its not the amount of time you spend in Washington. It ' s not the 
length of your resume. It ' s your **strength** , it ' s your values, it ' s 
the quality of the **people** you pick. It ' s your understanding of the 
**forces** of change that are sweeping the **world** , and whether or not you ' 
re in a **position** to provide leadership to make those **forces** of change 
**work** for us and not against us. The vice **president** has a long resume. 
But it didn ' t stop him from endorsing the sale of **arms** to the Ayatollah. 
And we now know that he was not out of the loop; he was in meeting after 
meeting listening to Secretary Shultz and Secretary Weinberger opposing that, 
and yet he **supported** it. His experience didn ' t prevent him from 
participating or **involving** or in some way being **involved** in the 
relationship between this **government** and Mr. Noriega and drug trafficking 
in Panama. He went to Philippines in the early 80Ï€s and commended Ferdinand 
Macros for his commitment to **democracy** . And he continues to **support** a 
failed **policy** in Central America which is getting worse and worse, and 
which has in fact increased Cuban and **Soviet** **influence** in that region. 
So I don ' t believe that the fact you ' ve got that long resume or had that 
experience is the real **question** . The **question** is values; the 
**question** is **strength** , the **question** is your willingness to provide 
the kind of leadership that must be provided. I ' m ready to provide that 
leadership. I want to be the commander in chief of this country. I think it 
take fresh leadership now, and an understanding of those **forces** of change 
to provide the kind of **strength** that we need, and perhaps the vice 
**president** can explain what he was doing when he **supported** the trading 
of **arms** to terrorist **nation** , and his involvement in Panama and that 
endorsement of Mr. Macros. But I don ' t think it ' s just experience that 
makes the difference. It ' s **strength** ; it ' s values. 

Lemmas in this text that loaded on the factor:

arm 
democracy (secondary)
force 
government 
influence 
involve 
leader 
nation 
people 
policy 
position 
president 
question 
soviet 
strength 
strong 
support 
work 
world 
