file = t001651
date = 2008-10-07
user = MCCAIN
conversation = October_7,_2008_Debate_Transcript
URL = The_Second_McCain-Obama_Presidential_Debate

word count = 359
words loading = 1
factor score = -2

… tough decisions. I want to get to Medicare in a second. Social Security is 
not that tough. We know what the problems are, my friends, and we know what the 
fixes are. We ' ve got to sit down together across the table. It ' s been done 
before. I saw it done with our — our wonderful Ronald Reagan, a conservative 
from California, and the liberal Democrat Tip O ' Neill from Massachusetts. 
That ' s what we need more of, and that ' s what I ' ve done in Washington. 
Senator Obama has never taken on his **party** leaders on a single major issue. 
I ' ve taken them on. I ' m not too popular sometimes with my own **party** , 
much less his. So Medicare, it ' s going to be a little tougher. It ' s going 
to be a little tougher because we ' re talking about very complex and difficult 
issues. My friends, what we have to do with Medicare is have a commission, have 
the smartest people in America come together, come up with recommendations, and 
then, like the base-closing commission idea we had, then we should have 
Congress vote up or down. Let ' s not let them fool with it anymore. There ' s 
too much special interests and too many lobbyists working there. So let ' s 
have — and let ' s have the American people say, " Fix it for us. " Now, just 
back on this — on this tax, you know, again, it ' s back to our first 
question here about rhetoric and record. Senator Obama has voted 94 times to 
either increase your taxes or against tax cuts. That ' s his record. When he 
ran for the United States Senate from Illinois, he said he would have a 
middle-income tax cut. You know he came to the Senate and never once proposed 
legislation to do that? So let ' s look at our record. I ' ve fought higher 
taxes. I have fought excess spending. I have fought to reform government. Let ' 
s look at our records, my friends, and then listen to my vision for the future 
of America. And we ' ll get our economy going again. And our best days are 
ahead of us. 

Lemmas in this text that loaded on the factor:

party 
