file = t001157
date = 2012-10-03
user = OBAMA
conversation = October_3,_2012_Debate_Transcript
URL = PRESIDENT_BARACK_OBAMA_AND_FORMER_GOV._MITT_ROMNEY,_R-MASS.,_PRESIDENTIAL_CANDIDATE,_PARTICIPATE_IN_A_CANDIDATES_DEBATE,_UNIVERSITY_OF_DENVER,_COLORADO

word count = 338
words loading = 1
factor score = -2

Well, first of all, I think Governor Romney ' s going to have a busy first day, 
because he ' s also going to repeal Obamacare, which will not be very popular 
among Democrats as you ' re sitting down with them. But, look, my philosophy 
has been, I will take ideas from anybody, Democrat or Republican, as long as 
they ' re advancing the cause of making middle-class families stronger and 
giving ladders of opportunity to the middle class. That ' s how we cut taxes 
for middle- class families and small businesses. That ' s how we cut a trillion 
dollars of spending that wasn ' t advancing that cause. That ' s how we signed 
three trade deals into law that are helping us to double our exports and sell 
more American products around the world. That ' s how we repealed " don ' t ask 
/ don ' t tell. " That ' s how we ended the war in Iraq, as I promised, and 
that ' s how we ' re going to wind down the war in Afghanistan. That ' s how we 
went after Al Qaida and bin Laden. So we ' ve — we ' ve seen progress even 
under Republican control of the House of Representatives. But, ultimately, part 
of being principled, part of being a leader is, A, being able to describe 
exactly what it is that you intend to do, not just saying, " I ' ll sit down, " 
but you have to have a plan. Number two, what ' s important is occasionally you 
' ve got to say no, to — to — to folks both in your own **party** and in 
the other **party** . And, you know, yes, have we had some fights between me 
and the Republicans when — when they fought back against us reining in the 
excesses of Wall Street? Absolutely, because that was a fight that needed to be 
had. When — when we were fighting about whether or not we were going to make 
sure that Americans had more security with their health insurance and they said 
no, yes, that was a fight that we needed to have. 

Lemmas in this text that loaded on the factor:

party 
