file = t003467
date = 1960-10-21
user = MR._KENNEDY
conversation = October_21,_1960_Debate_Transcript
URL = The_Fourth_Kennedy-Nixon_Presidential_Debate

word count = 438
words loading = 17
factor score = 33

Yes, I think the next **president** of the United **States** should make one 
last **effort** to secure an **agreement** on the cessation of tests, number 
one. I think we should go back to Geneva, who ' s ever elected **president** , 
Mr. Nixon or myself, and try once again. If we fail then, if we ' re unable to 
come to an **agreement** – and I **hope** we can come to an **agreement** 
because it does not merely **involve** now the United **States** , Britain, 
France, and the **Soviet** Union as atomic **powers** . Because new 
breakthroughs in atomic energy technology there ' s some indications that by 
the time the next **president** ' s term of office has come to an end, there 
may be ten, fifteen, or twenty countries with an atomic capacity, perhaps that 
many testing bombs with all the effect that it could have on the atmosphere and 
with all the chances that more and more countries will have an atomic capacity, 
with more and more chance of **war** . So one more **effort** should be made. I 
don ' t think that even if that **effort** fails that it will be necessary to 
carry on tests in the atmosphere which pollute the atmosphere. They can be 
carried out underground, they c- could be carried on in outer space. But I 
believe the **effort** should be made once more by who ' s ever elected 
**president** of the United **States** . If we fail, it ' s been a great 
serious **failure** for everyone – for the **human** **race** . I **hope** we 
can succeed. But then if we fail **responsibility** will be clearly on the 
Russians and then we ' ll have to meet our **responsibilities** to the 
**security** of the United **States** , and there may have to be testing 
underground. I think the Atomic Energy Committee is prepared for it. There may 
be testing in outer space. I **hope** it will not be necessary for any 
**power** to resume uh – testing in the atmosphere. It ' s possible to detect 
those kind of tests. The kind of tests which you can ' t detect are underground 
or in – in uh – perhaps in outer space. So that I ' m hopeful we can try 
once more. If we fail then we must meet our **responsibilities** to ourselves. 
But I ' m most concerned about the whole problem of the spread of atomic 
**weapons** . China may have it by 1963 , Egypt. **War** has been the constant 
companion of mankind, so to have these **weapons** disseminated around the 
**world** , I believe means that we ' re going to **move** through a period of 
hazard in the next few years. We ought to make one last **effort** . 

Lemmas in this text that loaded on the factor:

agreement 
effort 
failure 
hope 
human 
involve 
move 
power 
president 
race 
responsibility 
security 
soviet 
states 
war 
weapon (secondary)
world 
