file = t001957
date = 2004-09-30
user = BUSH
conversation = September_30._2004_Debate_Transcript
URL = The_First_Bush-Kerry_Presidential_Debate

word count = 265
words loading = 3
factor score = -3

My opponent looked at the same intelligence I looked at and declared in 2002 
that Saddam Hussein was a grave threat. He also said in December of 2003 that 
anyone who doubts that the world is safer without Saddam Hussein does not have 
the judgment to be president. I agree with him. The world is better off without 
Saddam Hussein. I was hoping diplomacy would work. I understand the serious 
consequences of committing our troops into harm ' s way. It ' s the hardest 
decision a president makes. So I went to the United **Nations** . I didn ' t 
need anybody to tell me to go to the United **Nations** . I decided to go there 
myself. And I went there hoping that, once and for all, the free world would 
act in concert to get Saddam Hussein to listen to our demands. They passed the 
**resolution** that said, " Disclose, disarm, or face serious consequences. " I 
believe, when an international body speaks, it must mean what it says. Saddam 
Hussein had no intention of disarming. Why should he? He had 16 other 
**resolutions** and nothing took place. As a matter of fact, my opponent talks 
about inspectors. The facts are that he was systematically deceiving the 
inspectors. That wasn ' t going to work. That ' s kind of a pre-September 10th 
mentality, the hope that somehow **resolutions** and failed inspections would 
make this world a more peaceful place. He was hoping we ' d turn away. But 
there was fortunately others beside myself who believed that we ought to take 
action. We did. The world is safer without Saddam Hussein. 

Lemmas in this text that loaded on the factor:

nations (secondary)
pre (secondary)
resolution 
