file = t000330
date = 2020-10-07
user = PENCE
conversation = October_07,_2020_Vice_Presidential_Debate_Transcript
URL = Vice_Presidential_Debate_at_the_University_of_Utah_in_Salt_Lake_City,_Utah

word count = 301
words loading = 2
factor score = -2

Well, thank you, Susan. Let me just say, addressing your very first question, I 
couldn ' t be more proud to serve as vice president to a President who stands 
without apology for the sanctity of human life. I ' m pro-life. I don ' t 
apologize for it. And this is another one of those cases where there ' s such a 
dramatic contrast. Joe Biden and Kamala Harris support taxpayer funding of 
**abortion** , all the way up to the moment of **birth** , late-term 
**abortion** . They want to increase funding to Planned Parenthood of America. 
Now for our part, I would never presume how Judge Amy Coney Barrett would rule 
on the Supreme Court of the United States but we ' ll continue to stand strong 
for the right to life. When you speak about the Supreme Court, though, I think 
the American people really deserve an answer, Senator Harris. Are you and Joe 
Biden gonna pack the court if Judge Amy Coney Barrett is confirmed? I mean, 
there have been 29 vacancies on the Supreme Court during presidential election 
years, from George Washington to Barack Obama. Presidents have nominated in all 
29 cases. But your party is actually openly advocating adding seats to the 
Supreme Court, which has had nine seats for 150 years, if you don ' t get your 
way. This is a classic case of if you can ' t win by the rules, you ' re going 
to change the rules. Now you ' ve refused to answer the question, Joe Biden has 
refused to answer the question. I think the American people would really like 
to know. If Judge Amy Coney Barrett is confirmed to the Supreme Court of the 
United States, are you and Joe Biden, if somehow you win this election, going 
to pack the Supreme Court to get your way? 

Lemmas in this text that loaded on the factor:

abortion 
birth 
