file = t002747
date = 1992-10-15
user = BUSH
conversation = October_15,_1992_First_Half_Debate_Transcript
URL = The_Second_Clinton-Bush-Perot_Presidential_Debate(First_Half_of_Debate)

word count = 376
words loading = 12
factor score = 18

I think you put your finger on a major problem. I talk about strengthening the 
American family and it ' s very hard to strengthen the family if people are 
scared to walk down to the corner store and, you know, send their **kid** down 
to get a loaf of bread. It ' s very hard. I have been fighting for very strong 
anti-crime legislation â€” habeas corpus **reform** , so you don ' t have these 
endless appeals, so when somebody gets sentenced, hey, this is for real. I ' ve 
been fighting for changes in the exclusionary rule so if an honest cop stops 
somebody and makes a technical mistake, the **criminal** doesn ' t go away. I ' 
ll probably get into a fight in this room with some but I happen to think that 
we need stronger **death** **penalties** for those that **kill** **police** 
**officers** . Virginia ' s in the lead in this, as Governor Clinton properly 
said, on this identification system for firearms. I am not for national 
registration of firearms. Some of the states that have the toughest anti-gun 
**laws** have the highest levels of **crime** . I am for the right, as the 
governor says- -I ' m a sportsman and I don ' t think you ought to eliminate 
all kinds of weapons. But I was not for the bill that he was talking about 
because it was not tough enough on the **criminal** . I ' m very pleased that 
the Fraternal Order of **Police** in Little Rock, Arkansas endorsed me because 
I think they see I ' m trying to strengthen the anti-crime legislation. We ' ve 
got more money going out for local **police** than any previous administration. 
So we ' ve got to get it under control and there ' s one last point I ' d make. 
**Drugs** . We have got to win our national strategy against **drugs** , the 
fight against **drugs** . And we ' re making some progress, doing a little 
better on interdiction. We ' re not doing as well amongst the people that get 
to be habitual drug-users. The good news is, and I think it ' s true in 
Richmond, teenage use is down of cocaine, substantially, 60 % in the last 
couple of years. So we ' re making progress but until we get that one done, we 
' re not going to solve the neighborhood **crime** problem. 

Lemmas in this text that loaded on the factor:

crime 
criminal 
death 
drug 
gun 
kid (secondary)
kill 
law 
officer 
penalty 
police 
reform (secondary)
