file = t001116
date = 2012-10-03
user = OBAMA
conversation = October_3,_2012_Debate_Transcript
URL = PRESIDENT_BARACK_OBAMA_AND_FORMER_GOV._MITT_ROMNEY,_R-MASS.,_PRESIDENTIAL_CANDIDATE,_PARTICIPATE_IN_A_CANDIDATES_DEBATE,_UNIVERSITY_OF_DENVER,_COLORADO

word count = 547
words loading = 1
factor score = -3

If — if we ' re serious, we ' ve got to take a balanced, responsible 
approach. And by the way, this is not just when it comes to individual taxes. 
Let ' s talk about corporate taxes. Now, I ' ve **identified** areas where we 
can, right away, make a change that I believe would actually help the economy. 
The oil industry gets $4 billion a year in corporate welfare. Basically, they 
get deductions that those small businesses that Governor Romney refers to, they 
don ' t get. Now, does anybody think that ExxonMobil needs some extra money, 
when they ' re making money every time you go to the pump? Why wouldn ' t we 
want to eliminate that? Why wouldn ' t we eliminate tax breaks for corporate 
jets? My attitude is, if you got a corporate jet, you can probably afford to 
pay full freight, not get a special break for it. When it comes to corporate 
taxes, Governor Romney has said he wants to, in a revenue neutral way, close 
loopholes, deductions — he hasn ' t **identified** which ones they are — 
but that thereby bring down the corporate rate. Well, I want to do the same 
thing, but I ' ve actually **identified** how we can do that. And part of the 
way to do it is to not give tax breaks to companies that are shipping jobs 
overseas. Right now, you can actually take a deduction for moving a plant 
overseas. I think most Americans would say that doesn ' t make sense. And all 
that raises revenue. And so if we take a balanced approach, what that then 
allows us to do is also to help young people, the way we already have during my 
administration, make sure that they can afford to go to college. It means that 
the teacher that I met in Las Vegas, a wonderful young lady, who describes to 
me — she ' s got 42 kids in her class. The first two weeks she ' s got them, 
some of them sitting on the floor until finally they get reassigned. They ' re 
using text books that are 10 years old. That is not a recipe for growth. That ' 
s not how America was built. And so budgets reflect choices. Ultimately, we ' 
re going to have to make some decisions. And if we ' re asking for no revenue, 
then that means that we ' ve got to get rid of a whole bunch of stuff. And the 
magnitude of the tax cuts that you ' re talking about, Governor, would end up 
resulting in severe hardship for people, but more importantly, would not help 
us grow. As I indicated before, when you talk about shifting Medicaid to 
states, we ' re talking about potentially a 30 — a 30 percent cut in Medicaid 
over time. Now, you know, that may not seem like a big deal when it just is, 
you know, numbers on a sheet of paper, but if we ' re talking about a family 
who ' s got an autistic kid and is depending on that Medicaid, that ' s a big 
problem. And governors are creative. There ' s no doubt about it. But they ' re 
not creative enough to make up for 30 percent of revenue on something like 
Medicaid. What ends up happening is some people end up not getting help. 

Lemmas in this text that loaded on the factor:

identify 
