file = t003398
date = 1960-09-26
user = MR._NIXON
conversation = September_26,_1960_Debate_Transcript
URL = The_First_Kennedy-Nixon_Presidential_Debate

word count = 444
words loading = 3
factor score = -12

I ' m awfully glad you ge- got that question because as you know I got into it 
at the last of my other question and wasn ' t able to complete the argument. Uh 
– I think that the reason that I voted against having the **federal** 
government uh – pay teachers ' **salaries** was probably the very reason that 
concerned Senator Kennedy when in January of this year, in his kick-off press 
conference, he said that he favored aid for school construction, but at that 
time did not feel that there should be aid for teachers ' **salaries** – at 
least that ' s the way I read his remarks. Now, why should there be any 
question about the **federal** government aiding s- teachers ' **salaries** ? 
Why did Senator Kennedy take that position then? Why do I take it now? We both 
took it then, and I take it now, for this reason: we want higher teachers ' 
**salaries** . We need higher teachers ' **salaries** . But we also want our 
education to be free of **federal** control. When the **federal** government 
gets the power to pay teachers, inevitably in my opinion, it will acquire the 
power to set standards and to tell the teachers what to teach. I think this 
would be bad for the country; I think it would be bad for the teaching 
profession. There is another point that should be made. I favor higher 
**salaries** for teachers. But, as Senator Kennedy said in January of this year 
in this same press conference, the way that you get higher **salaries** for 
teachers is to support school construction, which means that all of the local 
school **districts** in the various states then have money which is freed to 
raise the standards for teachers ' **salaries** . I should also point out this; 
once you put the responsibility on the **federal** government for paying a 
portion of teachers ' **salaries** , your local communities and your states are 
not going to meet the responsibility as much as they should. I believe, in 
other words, that we have seen the local communities and the state assuming 
more of that responsibility. Teachers ' **salaries** very fortunately have gone 
up fifty percent in the last eight years as against only a thirty-four percent 
rise for other **salaries** . This is not enough; it should be more. But I do 
not believe that the way to get more **salaries** for teachers is to have the 
**federal** government get in with a massive program. My objection here is not 
the cost in dollars. My objection here is the potential cost in controls and 
eventual freedom for the American people by giving the **federal** government 
power over education, and that is the greatest power a government can have. 

Lemmas in this text that loaded on the factor:

district (secondary)
federal (secondary)
salary 
