file = t003277
date = 1980-10-28
user = MR._CARTER
conversation = October_28,_1980_Debate_Transcript
URL = The_Carter-Reagan_Presidential_Debate

word count = 540
words loading = 24
factor score = 41

First of all, I ' d like to thank the League of Women Voters for making this 
debate possible. I think it ' s been a very constructive debate and I **hope** 
it ' s helped to acquaint the **American** **people** with the sharp 
differences between myself and Governor Reagan. Also, I want to thank the 
**people** of Cleveland and Ohio for being such hospitable hosts during these 
last few hours in my life. I ' ve been **President** now for almost four years. 
I ' ve had to make thousands of decisions, and each one of those decisions has 
been a learning process. I ' ve seen the **strength** of my **nation** , and I 
' ve seen the crises it approached in a tentative way. And I ' ve had to deal 
with those crises as **best** I could. As I ' ve studied the record between 
myself and Governor Reagan, I ' ve been impressed with the stark differences 
that exist between us. I think the result of this debate indicates that that 
fact is true. I consider myself in the mainstream of my party. I consider 
myself in the mainstream even of the bipartisan list of **Presidents** who 
**served** before me. The United **States** must be a **nation** **strong** ; 
the United **States** must be a **nation** secure. We must have a **society** 
that ' s just and fair. And we must **extend** the benefits of our own 
commitment to **peace** , to create a peaceful **world** . I believe that since 
I ' ve been in office, there have been six or eight areas of combat evolved in 
other parts of the **world** . In each case, I alone have had to determine the 
**interests** of my country and the degree of involvement of my country. I ' ve 
done that with moderation, with care, with thoughtfulness; sometimes consulting 
experts. But, I ' ve learned in this last three and a half years that when an 
issue is extremely **difficult** , when the call is very close, the chances are 
the experts will be divided almost 50-50 . And the final **judgment** about the 
**future** of the **nation** – **war** , **peace** , involvement, reticence, 
thoughtfulness, care, consideration, concern – has to be made by the man in 
the Oval Office. It ' s a lonely job, but with the involvement of the 
**American** **people** in the process, with an open **Government** , the job 
is a very gratifying one. The **American** **people** now are **facing** , next 
Tuesday, a lonely decision. Those listening to my voice will have to make a 
**judgment** about the **future** of this country. And I think they ought to 
remember that one vote can make a lot of difference. If one vote per precinct 
had changed in 1960 , John Kennedy would never have been **President** of this 
**nation** . And if a few more **people** had gone to the polls and voted in 
1968 , Hubert Humphrey would have been **President** ; Richard Nixon would not. 
There is a partnership **involved** in our **nation** . To stay **strong** , to 
stay at **peace** , to raise high the banner of **human** rights, to set an 
example for the rest of the **world** , to let our deep beliefs and commitments 
be **felt** by others in other **nations** , is my plan for the **future** . I 
ask the **American** **people** to join me in this partnership. 

Lemmas in this text that loaded on the factor:

american 
difficult 
extend (secondary)
face 
feel 
future 
good 
government 
hope 
human 
interest (secondary)
involve 
judgment 
nation 
peace (secondary)
people 
president 
serve 
society (secondary)
states 
strength 
strong 
war 
world 
