file = t001889
date = 2004-10-05
user = EDWARDS
conversation = October_5,_2004_Transcript
URL = The_Cheney-Edwards_Vice_Presidential_Debate

word count = 392
words loading = 19
factor score = 32

Well, let me say, first, he said in the same segment — I don ' t remember 
precisely where it was connected with what you just read — but he said, 
**point** blank, " We will never give anyone a veto over the **security** of 
the United **States** of America. " What he ' s saying is we ' re going to go 
back to the proud tradition of the United **States** of America and 
**presidents** of the United **States** of America for the last 50 to 75 years. 
First, we ' re going to actually tell the **American** **people** the truth. We 
' re going to tell them the truth about what ' s happening. We ' re not going 
to suggest to them that things are going well in Iraq or anyplace else when, in 
fact, they ' re not. We ' re going to make sure that the **American** 
**people** know the truth about why we are using **force** and what the 
explanation for it is. And it ' s not just the **American** **people** . We ' 
re also going to make sure that we tell the **world** the truth. Because the 
reality is, for America to **lead** , for America to do what it ' s done for 50 
years before this **president** and vice **president** came into office, it is 
critical that we be credible. It is critical that they believe that when 
America takes **action** , they can trust what we ' re doing, what we say, what 
we say at the United Nations, what we say in direct conversations with 
**leaders** of the **world** — of other countries. They need to know that the 
credibility of the United **States** is always **good** , because they will not 
**follow** us without that. And unfortunately, we ' re seeing the consequences 
of that right now. It ' s one of the reasons that we ' re having so much 
difficulty getting others **involved** in the **effort** in Iraq. You know, we 
' ve taken 90 percent of the coalition casualties. **American** taxpayers have 
**borne** 90 percent of the costs of the **effort** in Iraq. And we see the 
result of there not being a coalition - The first Gulf **war** cost America $5 
billion. We ' re at $200 billion and counting. John Kerry will never give up 
**control** over the **security** of the United **States** of America to any 
other country. We will not outsource our **responsibility** to keep this 
country safe. 

Lemmas in this text that loaded on the factor:

action 
american 
bear (secondary)
control 
effort 
follow 
force 
good 
involve 
lead 
leader 
people 
point 
president 
responsibility 
security 
states 
war 
world 
