file = t003113
date = 1984-10-11
user = FERRARO
conversation = October_11,_1984_Debate_Transcript
URL = The_Bush-Ferraro_Vice-Presidential_Debate

word count = 402
words loading = 7
factor score = 9

With reference to the busing vote that I cast in 1979 , both Fritz Mondale and 
I agree on the same goal and that is nondiscrimination. I just don ' t agree on 
the same direction he does on how to achieve it. But I don ' t find any problem 
with that. I think that ' s been something that ' s been handled by the courts, 
and not being handled by Congress and will not be handled by the White House. 
But we both support nondiscrimination in housing and integration of 
neighborhoods. The goals we both set forth. With reference to **tuition** tax 
credits, I have represented a **district** in Queens which is 70 percent 
Catholic. I represented my **district** . Let me say as well that I have also 
been a great supporter of **public** **school** **education** and that is 
something that Fritz and I feel very, very strongly about for the future of 
this country. And this administration over the past several years has gutted 
the educational programs available to our young people. It has attempted to 
knock out Pell Grants, which are monies to young individuals who are poor and 
who cannot afford to go to **college** . It has reduced by 25 percent the 
amount of monies going into **college** **education** and by a third those 
going into secondary and primary **schools** . But Fritz Mondale and I feel 
very strongly that if you educate your children that that ' s an effort and the 
way that you build up and make a stronger America. With reference to civil 
rights I think you ' ve got to go beyond that and if you take a look, also, at 
my record in the Congress and Fritz Mondale ' s record, both in the Senate and 
as vice president, we both have extremely strong civil rights records. This 
administration does not. It has come in in the Bob Jones on the side of 
segregated academies. It came in in the Grove City case on the side of 
discrimination against women, the handicapped, and the elderly. As a matter of 
fact, in the Congress we just passed overwhelmingly the Civil Rights Bill of 
1984 and this administration, the Republican-controlled Senate, just killed it 
in the last week or two in Congress. So there is a real difference between how 
the Mondale-Ferraro administration will address the problems of civil rights 
and the **failure** of this administration specifically in that particular 
area. 

Lemmas in this text that loaded on the factor:

college 
district 
education 
failure (secondary)
public (secondary)
school 
tuition 
