file = t002938
date = 1988-09-25
user = DUKAKIS
conversation = September_25,_1988_Debate_Transcript
URL = The_First_Bush-Dukakis_Presidential_Debate

word count = 388
words loading = 17
factor score = 33

This has been an extraordinary 18 **months** for Kitty and me and for our 
family. We ' ve had an opportunity to campaign all over this country and to 
meet with so many of you in **communities** and states and regions to get to 
know you. I ' m more optimistic **today** than I was when I began about this 
**nation** providing we have the kind of leadership in Washington that can 
**work** with you, that can build partnerships, that can build jobs in every 
part of this country, not certain parts of this country. You know, my friends, 
my parents came to this country as immigrants like millions and millions of 
Americans before them and since, **seeking** opportunities, **seeking** the 
**American** dream. They made sure their sons understood that this was the 
greatest country in the **world** , that those of us especially who were the 
sons and daughters of immigrants had a special **responsibility** to give 
something to the country that had opened up its **arms** to our parents and 
given so much to them. I believe in the **American** dream. I ' m a product of 
it and I want to help that dream come true for every single **citizen** in this 
land, with a **good** job and **good** **wages** , with **good** **schools** in 
every part of this country and every **community** in this country. With decent 
and affordable housing that our **people** can buy and own and live in, so that 
we end the shame of hopelessness in America. With decent and affordable 
healthcare for all **working** families. Yes, it ' s a tough problem as Mr. 
Bush says, but itÏ€s not an insolvable problem. It ' s one that we will 
solve and must solve, with a clean and wholesome environment and with a 
**strong** America that ' s **strong** militarily and economically as we must 
be, an America that provides **strong** international leadership because we ' 
re true to our values. We have an opportunity **working** together to build 
that **future** , to build a **better** America, to build a **best** America, 
because the **best** America doesn ' t hide. We compete. The **best** America. 
We invest. The **best** America doesn ' t leave some of its **citizens** 
behind. We live-we bring everybody along. And the **best** America is not 
behind us. The **best** America is yet to come. Thank you very much. ( Applause 
) 

Lemmas in this text that loaded on the factor:

american 
arm 
citizen 
community 
future 
good 
month 
nation 
people 
responsibility 
school (secondary)
seek 
strong 
today 
wage 
work 
world 
