file = t002935
date = 1988-09-25
user = DUKAKIS
conversation = September_25,_1988_Debate_Transcript
URL = The_First_Bush-Dukakis_Presidential_Debate

word count = 360
words loading = 1
factor score = -5

Well, I think we have to go to work on the problem of Third World debt and we ' 
ve got to assist those Third World countries in dealing with this massive debt 
which they currently-which they have incurred and which is burdening them and 
which if we don ' t do something about it and assist them along with other 
nations around the world, we ' ll destroy their economies, destroy their 
future. And at the same time will destroy markets that are important to our 
**farmers** . But I also believe we need an agricultural policy which doesn ' t 
cost us 15 to 20 to 25 billion dollars a year that it ' s been costing us over 
the course of the past three or four years under this administration. I think 
it ' s going to require good, solid credit policies. And thanks to the Congress 
we now have an agricultural credit bill which is helping and improving the 
situation with at least some of our **farmers** . I think it ' s going to 
require a combination of supply management and reasonable price supports to 
make sure that our **farmers** get a decent price and I think it also is going 
to require an administration that understand that there are tremendous 
opportunities out there for the development of new uses for agricultural 
products, new uses which can help us to clean up our environment at the same 
time. Bio-degradable plastics-plastic-gasohol, which the Vice President has 
been involved in, road de-icers made from corn products. I mean, there are 
enormous opportunities out there to expand markets and to build a strong future 
for our **farmers** . But I don ' t think there ' s anything mutually exclusive 
or contradictory about building a strong farm economy in this country and 
assisting our family farms and providing a good strong future for rural 
communities and for rural America and at the same time working on Third World 
debt. As a matter of fact, Mexico, itself, is one of our biggest agricultural 
customers, so in the sense that we can work to help Mexico rebuild and expand 
and deal with these very serious economic problems we help our **farmers** at 
the same time. 

Lemmas in this text that loaded on the factor:

farmer 
