file = t002133
date = 2000-10-05
user = CHENEY
conversation = October_5,_2000_Debate_Transcript
URL = The_Lieberman-Cheney_Vice_Presidential_Debate

word count = 402
words loading = 6
factor score = 16

This is an area, again, where I think again Joe and I have fairly significant 
disagreements. My assessment is that there is no **comprehensive** **energy** 
policy today. That as a nation, we are in trouble because the administration 
has not addressed these issues. We have the prospects of brownouts in 
California. We have a potential home heating **oil** crisis in the northeast. 
We have gasoline price rises in various other places. For years now the 
administration has talked about reducing our dependence on foreign **sources** 
of **oil** , but they haven ' t done it. In fact, we ' ve gone exactly in the 
opposite direction. We have the lowest rate of domestic **production** of 
**oil** now in 46 years. You have to go back to 1954 to find a time when we 
produced as little **oil** as we do today. Our **imports** are at an all-time 
record high. In June we **imported** almost 12 million barrels of **oil** a 
day. That means we are more subject to the wide fluctuations and swings in 
price. We have other problems. We don ' t have refinery capacity. We haven ' t 
built a new refinery in this country for over ten years. They ' re operating at 
96 % or 97 % capacity. Even with more crude available they ' re probably not 
going to be able to do very much by way of producing additional home heating 
**oil** for this winter. We have a growing problem with our growing dependence 
on foreign **sources** of **energy** . That will allways be the case but we 
ought to be able to shift the trend and begin to move it in the right 
direction. We need to do a lot more about generating the capacity for power 
here at home. We need to get on with the business and we think we can do it 
very safely in an environmentally sound manner. We don ' t think we ought to 
buy into this false choice that somehow we cannot develop **energy** resources 
without being cautious with the environment. We can. We have the technology to 
do it and we ought to do it. We do support the low income **energy** assistance 
program. We think it ' s important that senior citizens don ' t suffer this 
winter, but we need to get on to the business of having a plan to develop our 
domestic **energy** resources in producing more supplies, and this 
administration hasn ' t produced them. 

Lemmas in this text that loaded on the factor:

comprehensive (secondary)
energy 
import 
oil 
production 
source 
