file = t002155
date = 2000-10-05
user = LIEBERMAN
conversation = October_5,_2000_Debate_Transcript
URL = The_Lieberman-Cheney_Vice_Presidential_Debate

word count = 302
words loading = 2
factor score = -2

Bernie, you ' ll not be surprised to hear that I disagree. First let me talk 
about that joke about **religion** which I found very distasteful. And believe 
me, if anybody has devoted his life to respecting the role of **religion** in 
American life and understands that Americans from the beginning of our history 
have turned to God for strength and purpose, it ' s me. And any offense that 
was done, I apologize for. I thought that humor was unacceptable. Let me come 
to the question of Hollywood and then answer the general question. Al Gore and 
I have felt for a long time, first as parents and then only second as public 
officials, that we cannot let America ' s parents stand alone in this 
competition that they feel they ' re in with Hollywood to raise their own kids 
and give their kids the faith and values they want to give them. I ' ve been a 
consistent crusader on that behalf. John McCain and I actually requested the 
Federal Trade Commission report that came out three or four weeks ago which 
proved conclusively that the entertainment industry was marketing adult-rated 
products to our children. That is just not acceptable. One finding was that 
they were actually using 10 to 12-year-olds to test screen adult-rated 
products. When that report came out, Al Gore and I said to the entertainment 
industry, stop it. If you don ' t stop it in six months, we ' ll ask the 
Federal Trade Commission to take action against you. There was no similar 
strong **response** from our opponents. We repeated that message when we went 
to Los Angeles. I repeat it today. We won ' t stop until the entertainment 
industry stops marketing its products to our children. Al Gore and I â€” I ' m 
out. Maybe I can come back to it. 

Lemmas in this text that loaded on the factor:

religion 
response 
