file = t002883
date = 1988-09-25
user = DUKAKIS
conversation = September_25,_1988_Debate_Transcript
URL = The_First_Bush-Dukakis_Presidential_Debate

word count = 414
words loading = 5
factor score = 12

I ' m saying that those of us who are elected to positions of political 
leadership, Jim, have a special responsibility, not only to come up with 
programs, and I have outlined in detail the very important, very strong program 
of **enforcement** as well as **drug** education prevention. And Mr. Bush is 
right â€“ the two go hand in hand. But if our government itself is doing 
business with people who we know are engaged in **drug** profiteering and 
**drug** trafficking, if we don ' t understand that that sends out a very, very 
bad message to our young people, it ' s a little difficult for me to understand 
just how we can reach out to that youngster that I talked about and to young 
people like her all over the country, and say to them we want to help you. Now, 
I ' ve outlined in great detail a program for being tough on **enforcement** at 
home and abroad, doubling the number of **drug** **enforcement** agents, having 
a hemispheric summit soon after the 20th of January when we bring our 
democratic neighbors and allies together here in this hemisphere and go to work 
together. But we also have to take demand seriously. You know, we have five 
percent of the world ' s population in this country. We ' re consuming 50 
percent of the world ' s cocaine. And in my state I ' m **proud** to say we ' 
ve organized a **drug** education and prevention program which the Federal 
**Drug** **Enforcement** Administration says is a model for the country. We ' 
re helping youngsters; we ' re reaching out to them. And we ' re beginning with 
**drug** education and prevention beginning in the early elementary grades in 
every elementary school in our state, and that ' s the kind of effort we need 
in every elementary school in the United States of America. And we ' ve got to 
begin early, in the first, second and third grade, before our youngsters begin 
to experiment with these very, very dangerous substances. I guess the question 
I would ask of Mr. Bush is how we instill those values, how we create this 
**environment** for the **drug** free schools that we want in this country. If 
he or representatives of the administration are either with or involving people 
like Noriega in our foreign policy, or don ' t pursue that connection in a way 
that makes it possible for us to cut it off and to be an example to our 
**kids** all over the country. 

Lemmas in this text that loaded on the factor:

drug 
enforcement 
environment 
kid (secondary)
proud 
