file = t001654
date = 2008-10-07
user = MCCAIN
conversation = October_7,_2008_Debate_Transcript
URL = The_Second_McCain-Obama_Presidential_Debate

word count = 278
words loading = 7
factor score = 9

I think pure **research** and development **investment** on the part of the 
United States government is certainly appropriate. I think once it gets into 
productive stages, that we ought to, obviously, turn it over to the private 
**sector** . By the way, my friends, I know you grow a little weary with this 
back-and-forth. It was an **energy** bill on the floor of the Senate loaded 
down with goodies, billions for the **oil** companies, and it was sponsored by 
Bush and Cheney. You know who voted for it? You might never know. That one. You 
know who voted against it? Me. I have fought time after time against these pork 
barrel â€” these bills that come to the floor and they have all kinds of 
goodies and all kinds of things in them for everybody and they buy off the 
votes. I vote against them, my friends. I vote against them. But the point is, 
also, on **oil** drilling, **oil** drilling offshore now is vital so that we 
can bridge the gap. We can bridge the gap between **imported** **oil** , which 
is a national security issue, as well as any other, and it will reduce the 
price of a barrel of **oil** , because when people know there ' s a greater 
supply, then the cost of that will go down. That ' s fundamental economics. We 
' ve got to **drill** offshore, my friends, and we ' ve got to do it now, and 
we can do it. And as far as nuclear power is concerned, again, look at the 
record. Senator Obama has approved storage and reprocessing of spent nuclear 
fuel. And I ' ll stop, Tom, and you didn ' t even wave. Thanks. 

Lemmas in this text that loaded on the factor:

drill 
energy 
import 
investment (secondary)
oil 
research 
sector (secondary)
