file = t000834
date = 2016-10-04
user = KAINE
conversation = October_4,_2016_Debate_Transcript
URL = Vice_Presidential_Debate_at_Longwood_University_in_Farmville,_Virginia

word count = 361
words loading = 7
factor score = 16

Yeah, that ' s an easy one for me, Elaine. It ' s an easy one. I ' m really 
fortunate. I grew up in a wonderful household with great Irish Catholic 
**parents** . My mom and dad are sitting right here. I was educated by Jesuits 
at Rockhurst High School in Kansas City. My 40th reunion is in 10 days. And I 
worked with Jesuit missionaries in Honduras, now nearly 35 years ago, and they 
were the heroes of my **life** . I try to practice my religion in a very devout 
way and follow the teachings of my **church** in my own personal **life** . But 
I don ' t believe in this nation, a First Amendment nation, where we don ' t 
raise any religion over the other, and we allow people to worship as they 
please, that the doctrines of any one religion should be mandated for everyone. 
For me, the hardest struggle in my faith **life** was the Catholic **Church** 
is against the **death** **penalty** and so am I. But I was governor of a 
state, and the state **law** said that there was a **death** **penalty** for 
**crimes** if the jury determined them to be heinous. And so I had to grapple 
with that. When I was running for governor, I was attacked pretty strongly 
because of my position on the **death** **penalty** . But I looked the voters 
of Virginia in the eye and said, look, this is my religion. I ' m not going to 
change my religious practice to get one vote, but I know how to take an oath 
and uphold the **law** . And if you elect me, I will uphold the **law** . And I 
was elected, and I did. It was very, very difficult to allow executions to go 
forward, but in circumstances where I didn ' t feel like there was a case for 
clemency, I told Virginia voters I would uphold the **law** , and I did. That 
was a real struggle. But I think it is really, really important that those of 
us who have deep faith **lives** don ' t feel like we could just substitute our 
own views for everybody else in society, regardless of their views. 

Lemmas in this text that loaded on the factor:

church 
crime 
death 
law 
life 
parent (secondary)
penalty 
