file = t002111
date = 2000-10-05
user = CHENEY
conversation = October_5,_2000_Debate_Transcript
URL = The_Lieberman-Cheney_Vice_Presidential_Debate

word count = 367
words loading = 15
factor score = 17

I think **public** **education** is a solution. Our desire is to find ways to 
reform our educational system, to **return** it to its former glory. I ' m a 
product of **public** **schools** , my family, wife and **daughters** all went 
to **public** **schools** . We believe very much in the **public** **school** 
system. But if you look at where we are from the standpoint of the nation, 
recent exams. For example, the National Assessment of Educational Progress, an 
independent **testing** service, shows there ' s been no progress on reading 
scores in the last eight years. Almost no progress on math. The achievement gap 
between **minority** and non-minority **students** is as big as itâ€ 
trade_mark_e s ever been. We ' ve had a significant increase in spending for 
**education** nationwide, but it has produced almost no positive results. That 
' s unacceptable from our standpoint. If you look at it and think about it, we 
now have in our most disadvantaged **communities** , 70 % of our fourth graders 
can ' t read at the basic level of understanding. We ' ve **graduated** 15 
million **kids** from high **school** in the last few years who can ' t read at 
a significant level. They are permanently sentenced to a lifetime of 
**failure** . What we want to do is to change that. We think we know how to do 
it. Governor Bush has done it in Texas. We want to emphasize **local** control 
so that people here in Danville, KY decide what is best for their **kids** . We 
want to insist on high standards. One of the worst things we can do is fail to 
establish high standards, in effect to say to a youngster because of their 
ethnic **background** or income level, we don ' t have the same kind of 
expectations from you that we have from everybody else. We want 
**accountability** . We have to test every child every year to know whether or 
not we ' re making progress with respect to achieving those goals and 
objectives. We think it ' s extraordinarily important. Probably the single most 
important issue in this campaign. Governor Bush has made it clear that when he 
' s elected this will be his number one priority as a legislative measure to 
submit to the Congress. 

Lemmas in this text that loaded on the factor:

accountability 
background (secondary)
community (secondary)
daughter 
education 
failure (secondary)
graduate 
kid 
local 
minority 
public (secondary)
return 
school 
student 
testing 
