file = t000340
date = 2020-10-07
user = PENCE
conversation = October_07,_2020_Vice_Presidential_Debate_Transcript
URL = Vice_Presidential_Debate_at_the_University_of_Utah_in_Salt_Lake_City,_Utah

word count = 317
words loading = 8
factor score = 13

Well our heart breaks for the loss of any innocent American **life** , and the 
family of Breonna Taylor has our sympathies. But I trust our **justice** 
system, a grand jury that reviews the evidence. And it really is remarkable, 
that as a former prosecutor, you would assume that in a panel grand jury, 
looking at all the evidence, got it wrong. But you ' re entitled to your 
opinion, Senator. And with regard to George Floyd, there ' s no excuse for what 
happened to George Floyd. **Justice** will be **served** . But there ' s also 
no excuse for the rioting and looting that followed. I mean, it really is 
astonishing. Flora Westbrook is with us here tonight in Salt Lake City. Just a 
few weeks ago, I stood at what used to be her salon, was burned to the ground. 
By rioters and looters. And Flora is still trying to put her **life** back 
together. And I must tell ya, this, this presumption that you hear consistently 
from Joe Biden and Kamala Harris, that America is systemically racist. That as 
Joe Biden said, that he believes that **law** **enforcement** has an implicit 
bias against minorities, is a great insult to the men and women who **serve** 
in **law** **enforcement** . And I want everyone to know, who puts on the 
uniform of **law** **enforcement** every day, that President Trump and I stand 
with you. It is remarkable that when Senator Tim Scott tried to pass a 
**police** **reform** bill, brought together a group of Republicans and 
Democrats – Senator Harris, you got up and walked out of the room. And then 
you filibustered Senator Tim Scott ' s bill on the Senate floor that would have 
provided new accountability, new resources. But we don ' t have to choose 
between supporting **law** **enforcement** , improving **public** safety, and 
supporting our African American neighbors and all of our minorities. Under 
President Trump ' s leadership – 

Lemmas in this text that loaded on the factor:

enforcement 
justice 
law 
life 
police 
public 
reform (secondary)
serve (secondary)
