file = t000297
date = 2020-10-07
user = PENCE
conversation = October_07,_2020_Vice_Presidential_Debate_Transcript
URL = Vice_Presidential_Debate_at_the_University_of_Utah_in_Salt_Lake_City,_Utah

word count = 276
words loading = 7
factor score = 9

Thank you Susan. Well first, I ' m very proud of our record on the environment 
and on conservation. According to all of the best estimates, our, our air and 
land are **cleaner** than any time ever recorded. And our **water** is among 
the **cleanest** in the world. And just a little while ago, the president 
signed the Outdoors Act, the largest **investment** in our public lands and 
public parks in 100 years. So, President Trump has made a commitment to 
conservation and to the environment. Now with regard to climate change, the 
climate is changing. But the issue is, what ' s the cause and what do we do 
about it. President Trump has made it clear that we ' re going to continue to 
listen to the science. Now Joe Biden and Kamala Harris, would put us back in 
the Paris Climate Accord. They ' d impose the Green New Deal, which would crush 
American **energy** , would increase the **energy** cost of American families 
in their homes and literally would crush American jobs. President Trump and I 
believe that the progress that we have made in a **cleaner** environment has 
been happening precisely because we have a strong free **market** economy. You 
know what ' s remarkable is the United States has reduced CO2 more than the 
countries that are still in the Paris Climate Accord, but we ' ve done it 
through innovation. And we ' ve done it through **natural** **gas** and 
fracking, which, Senator, the American people can go look at the record. I know 
Joe Biden says otherwise now, as you do, but the both of you repeatedly 
committed to abolishing fossil fuel and banning fracking. 

Lemmas in this text that loaded on the factor:

clean 
energy 
gas 
investment (secondary)
market 
natural 
water 
