file = t003388
date = 1960-09-26
user = MR._NIXON
conversation = September_26,_1960_Debate_Transcript
URL = The_First_Kennedy-Nixon_Presidential_Debate

word count = 1400
words loading = 29
factor score = 54

Mr. Smith, Senator Kennedy. The things that Senator Kennedy has said many of us 
can **agree** with. There is no **question** but that we cannot discuss our 
internal affairs in the United **States** without recognizing that they have a 
tremendous bearing on our international **position** . There is no **question** 
but that this **nation** cannot stand still; because we are in a deadly 
competition, a competition not only with the men in the Kremlin, but the men in 
Peking. We ' re ahead in this competition, as Senator Kennedy, I think, has 
implied. But when you ' re in a **race** , the only way to stay ahead is to 
**move** ahead. And I subscribe completely to the spirit that Senator Kennedy 
has **expressed** tonight, the spirit that the United **States** should 
**move** ahead. Where, then, do we disagree? I think we disagree on the 
implication of his remarks tonight and on the statements that he has made on 
many occasions during his campaign to the effect that the United **States** has 
been standing still. We heard tonight, for example, the statement made that our 
growth in **national** product last year was the lowest of any industrial 
**nation** in the **world** . Now last year, of course, was 1958 . That 
happened to be a recession year. But when we look at the growth of G. N. P. 
this year, a year of recovery, we find that it ' s six and nine-tenths per cent 
and one of the **highest** in the **world** **today** . More about that later. 
Looking then to this problem of how the United **States** should **move** ahead 
and where the United **States** is **moving** , I think it is well that we take 
the advice of a very famous campaigner: Let ' s look at the record. Is the 
United **States** standing still? Is it true that this Administration, as 
Senator Kennedy has charged, has been an Administration of retreat, of defeat, 
of stagnation? Is it true that, as far as this country is concerned, in the 
field of electric **power** , in all of the fields that he has mentioned, we 
have not been **moving** ahead. Well, we have a comparison that we can make. We 
have the record of the Truman Administration of seven and a half years and the 
seven and a half years of the Eisenhower Administration. When we compare these 
two records in the areas that Senator Kennedy has – has discussed tonight, I 
think we find that America has been **moving** ahead. Let ' s take **schools** 
. We have built more **schools** in these last seven and a half years than we 
built in the previous seven and a half, for that matter in the previous twenty 
years. Let ' s take hydroelectric **power** . We have developed more 
hydroelectric **power** in these seven and a half years than was developed in 
any previous administration in history. Let us take hospitals. We find that 
more have been built in this Administration than in the previous 
Administration. The same is true of highways. Let ' s put it in terms that all 
of us can understand. We often hear gross **national** product discussed and in 
that respect may I say that when we compare the growth in this Administration 
with that of the previous Administration that then there was a total growth of 
eleven percent over seven years; in this Administration there has been a total 
growth of nineteen per cent over seven years. That shows that there ' s been 
more growth in this Administration than in its predecessor. But let ' s not put 
it there; let ' s put it in terms of the average family. What has happened to 
you? We find that your **wages** have gone up five times as much in the 
Eisenhower Administration as they did in the Truman Administration. What about 
the prices you pay? We find that the prices you pay went up five times as much 
in the Truman Administration as they did in the Eisenhower Administration. What 
' s the net result of this? This means that the average family income went up 
fifteen per cent in the Eisenhower years as against two per cent in the Truman 
years. Now, this is not standing still. But, **good** as this record is, may I 
emphasize it isn ' t enough. A record is never something to stand on. It ' s 
something to build on. And in building on this record, I believe that we have 
the secret for progress, we know the way to progress. And I think, first of 
all, our own record proves that we know the way. Senator Kennedy has suggested 
that he believes he knows the way. I respect the sincerity which he m- which he 
makes that suggestion. But on the other hand, when we look at the various 
**programs** that he **offers** , they do not seem to be new. They seem to be 
simply retreads of the **programs** of the Truman Administration which preceded 
it. And I would suggest that during the course of the evening he might indicate 
those areas in which his **programs** are new, where they will mean more 
progress than we had then. What kind of **programs** are we for? We are for 
**programs** that will expand educational opportunities, that will give to all 
Americans their equal chance for education, for all of the things which are 
necessary and dear to the hearts of our **people** . We are for **programs** , 
in addition, which will see that our medical care for the aged are – is – 
are much – is much better handled than it is at the present time. Here again, 
may I indicate that Senator Kennedy and I are not in disagreement as to the 
aims. We both want to help the old **people** . We want to see that they do 
have adequate medical care. The **question** is the means. I think that the 
means that I advocate will reach that goal better than the means that he 
advocates. I could give **better** examples, but for – for whatever it is, 
whether it ' s in the field of housing, or health, or medical care, or 
**schools** , or the eh- **development** of electric **power** , we have 
**programs** which we believe will **move** America, **move** her forward and 
build on the wonderful record that we have made over these **past** seven and a 
half years. Now, when we look at these **programs** , might I suggest that in 
evaluating them we often have a tendency to say that the test of a **program** 
is how much you ' re spending. I will concede that in all the areas to which I 
have referred Senator Kennedy would have the spe- federal **government** spend 
more than I would have it spend. I costed out the cost of the **Democratic** 
platform. It runs a minimum of thirteen and two-tenths billions **dollars** a 
year more than we are presently spending to a maximum of eighteen billion 
**dollars** a year more than we ' re presently spending. Now the **Republican** 
platform will cost more too. It will cost a minimum of four billion **dollars** 
a year more, a maximum of four and nine-tenths billion **dollar** a year more 
than we ' re presently spending. Now, does this mean that his **program** is 
**better** than ours? Not at all. Because it isn ' t a **question** of how much 
the federal **government** spends; it isn ' t a **question** of which 
**government** does the most. It is a **question** of which administration does 
the right thing. And in our case, I do believe that our **programs** will 
stimulate the creative energies of a hundred and eighty million **free** 
Americans. I believe the **programs** that Senator Kennedy advocates will have 
a tendency to stifle those creative energies, I believe in other words, that 
his **program** would **lead** to the stagnation of the motive **power** that 
we need in this country to get progress. The final **point** that I would like 
to make is this: Senator Kennedy has suggested in his speeches that we lack 
compassion for the poor, for the old, and for others that are unfortunate. Let 
us understand throughout this campaign that his motives and mine are sincere. I 
know what it means to be poor. I know what it means to see **people** who are 
unemployed. I know Senator Kennedy **feels** as deeply about these problems as 
I do, but our disagreement is not about the goals for America but only about 
the means to reach those goals. 

Lemmas in this text that loaded on the factor:

agree 
democratic 
development (secondary)
dollar (secondary)
express 
feel 
free 
good 
government 
high (secondary)
lead 
move 
nation 
national 
offer 
past 
people 
point 
position 
power 
program (secondary)
question 
race 
republican 
school (secondary)
states 
today 
wage 
world 
