file = t003256
date = 1980-10-28
user = MR._CARTER
conversation = October_28,_1980_Debate_Transcript
URL = The_Carter-Reagan_Presidential_Debate

word count = 252
words loading = 2
factor score = -2

Yes. Governor Reagan is making some very misleading and disturbing statements. 
He not only advocates the scrapping of this treaty – and I don ' t know that 
these men that he quotes are against the treaty in its final form – but he 
also advocates the possibility, he said it ' s been a missing element, of 
playing a trump card against the Soviet Union of a nuclear arms race, and is 
insisting upon nuclear superiority by our own nation, as a predication for 
**negotiation** in the future with the Soviet Union. If President Brezhnev 
said, we will scrap this treaty, negotiated under three American Presidents 
over a seven-year period of time, we insist upon nuclear superiority as a basis 
for future **negotiations** , and we believe that the launching of a nuclear 
arms race is a good basis for future **negotiations** , it ' s obvious that I, 
as President, and all Americans, would reject such a proposition. This would 
mean the resumption of a very **dangerous** nuclear arms race. It would be very 
disturbing to American people. It would change the basic tone and commitment 
that our nation has experienced ever since the Second World War, with al 
Presidents, Democratic and Republican. And it would also be very disturbing to 
our allies, all of whom support this nuclear arms treaty. In addition to that, 
the adversarial relationship between ourselves and the Soviet Union would 
undoubtedly deteriorate very rapidly. This attitude is extremely **dangerous** 
and belligerent in its tone, although it ' s said with a quiet voice. 

Lemmas in this text that loaded on the factor:

dangerous 
negotiation (secondary)
