file = t003038
date = 1988-10-13
user = DUKAKIS
conversation = October_13,_1988_Debate_Transcript
URL = The_Second_Bush-Dukakis_Presidential_Debate

word count = 335
words loading = 1
factor score = -2

No, and I have to ( Applause ) I just have to correct the record. That simply 
isn ' t true. Now, we ' re not a parliamentary body, the National Governors 
Association. We vote on **resolutions** . If you don ' t get a two-thirds, then 
your **resolution** doesn ' t pass. But everybody knew that those of us who 
voted against the freezing of COLAs did so, we did so emphatically. And I never 
made that statement; never would. The point is that as we look at this nation ' 
s future, and we have two very different visions of this future. I want to move 
ahead. The Vice President talks about a thousand points of light. I ' m 
interested in 240 million points of light. I ' m interested in 240 million 
citizens in this country who share in the American dream, all of them in every 
part of this country. But as we look at the decisions that the next president 
of the United States is going to have to make, I just don ' t believe the place 
you go first is those programs, those so-called entitlements, which provide a 
basic floor of income and a modest amount of medical care for the elderly, the 
disabled, for people who can ' t make their way on their own, and in many 
cases, have given a great deal to this country. The Vice President did call 
Social Security a few years ago basically or largely a welfare program. It isn 
' t. It ' s a contract between generations. It ' s something that we pay into 
now so that we will have a secure retirement, and our parents and grandparents 
will have a secure retirement. It ' s a very sacred contract, and I believe in 
it. So that ' s not where we ought to go. There are plenty of places to cut. 
There ' s lots we can do in the Pentagon where dishonest contractors have been 
lining their pockets at the expense of the American taxpayer. There are we 
certainly ought to be able to 

Lemmas in this text that loaded on the factor:

resolution 
