file = t003156
date = 1984-10-11
user = BUSH
conversation = October_11,_1984_Debate_Transcript
URL = The_Bush-Ferraro_Vice-Presidential_Debate

word count = 455
words loading = 23
factor score = 33

Well, in a couple of weeks, you, the **American** **people** , will be 
**faced** , three weeks, with a choice. It ' s the clearest choice in some 
fifty years. And the choice is, do we **move** forward with **strength** and 
with prosperity or do we go back to weakness, despair, disrespect. Ronald 
Reagan and I have put our trust in the **American** **people** . We ' ve 
**moved** some of the **power** away from Washington, D. C. , and put it back 
with the **people** . We ' re pulling together. The neighborhoods are safer ' 
cause crime is going down. Your sons and daughters are doing better in 
**school** . Test scores are going up. There ' s a new opportunity lying out 
there in the **future** . Science, technology and space offering opportunity 
that, to everybody, all the young ones coming up. And abroad there ' s new 
leadership and respect. And Ronald Reagan is clearly the **strong** **leader** 
of the **free** **world** . And I ' ll be honest with you. It ' s a joy to 
**serve** with a **president** who does not apologize for the United **States** 
of America. Mr. Mondale, on the other hand, has one idea. Go out and tax the 
**American** **people** . And then he wants to repeal indexing, to wipe out the 
one protection that those at the lowest end of the economic scale have 
protecting them against being rammed into **higher** and **higher** tax 
brackets. We just owe our country too much to go back to that kind of an 
approach. I ' d like to say something to the young **people** . I started a 
business. I know what it is to have a dream and have a job and **work** hard to 
employ others and really to participate in the **American** dream. Some of you 
out there are finishing **high** **school** or college and some of you are 
starting out in the **working** **place** . And we want for you America ' s 
greatest gift. And that is opportunity. And then, **peace** . Yes, I did 
**serve** in combat. I was shot down when I was a young kid, scared to death. 
And all that did, saw friends die, but that heightened my convictions about 
**peace** . It is absolutely essential that we guarantee the young **people** 
that they will not know the agony of **war** . America ' s gift, opportunity 
and **peace** . Now we do have some unfinished business. We must continue to go 
ahead. The **world** is too complex to go back to vacillation and weakness. We 
' ve too much going on to go back to the failed **policies** of the **past** . 
The **future** is too bright not to give it our **best** shot. Together we can 
go forward and lift America up to meet her greatest dreams. Thank you very 
much. 

Lemmas in this text that loaded on the factor:

american 
face 
free 
future 
good 
high (secondary)
leader 
move 
past 
peace (secondary)
people 
place 
policy 
power 
president 
school (secondary)
serve 
states 
strength 
strong 
war 
work 
world 
