file = t002542
date = 1992-10-11
user = CLINTON
conversation = October_11,_1992_First_Half_Debate_Transcript
URL = The_First_Clinton-Bush-Perot_Presidential_Debate(First_Half_of_Debate)

word count = 236
words loading = 26
factor score = 45

â€“ notwithstanding my opponent ' s ad, my **plan** triggers in at gross 
**incomes** , **family** **incomes** of $200 , 000 and above. Then we want to 
give modest middle-class **tax** **relief** to restore some fairness, 
especially to middle- **class** **people** with **families** with **incomes** 
of under $60 , 000 . In addition to that, the **money** that I **raise** from 
upper-income **people** and from asking foreign corporations just to **pay** 
the same **income** on their **income** earned in America that American 
corporations do will be used to give incentives back to upper-income **people** 
. I want to give **people** permanent incentives on **investment** **tax** 
credit, like President Kennedy and the Congress inaugurated in the early ' 60s 
to get industry moving again; a research and **development** **tax** credit; a 
low-income housing **tax** credit; a long-term **capital** **gains** 
**proposal** for new **business** and **business** expansions. We ' ve got to 
have no more trickle down. We don ' t need across-the-board **tax** **cuts** 
for the **wealthy** for nothing. We need to say here ' s your **tax** 
incentive: if you **create** American **jobs** , the old-fashioned way. I ' d 
like to **create** more millionaires than were **created** under Mr. Bush and 
Mr. Reagan, but I don ' t want to have 4 years where we have no **growth** in 
the **private** **sector** , and that ' s what ' s happened in the last 4 
years. We ' re down 35 , 000 **jobs** in the **private** **sector** . We need 
to invest and **grow** , and that ' s what I want to do. 

Lemmas in this text that loaded on the factor:

business 
capital 
class 
create 
cut 
development 
family 
gain (secondary)
grow 
growth 
income 
investment 
job 
low 
middle 
money 
pay 
people (secondary)
plan 
private 
proposal 
raise 
relief 
sector 
tax 
wealthy 
