file = t000837
date = 2016-10-04
user = KAINE
conversation = October_4,_2016_Debate_Transcript
URL = Vice_Presidential_Debate_at_Longwood_University_in_Farmville,_Virginia

word count = 267
words loading = 3
factor score = -2

Elaine, this is a fundamental question, a fundamental question. Hillary and I 
are both people out of **religious** backgrounds, from Methodist church 
experience, which was really formative for her as a public servant. But we 
really feel like you should live fully and with enthusiasm the commands of your 
faith. But it is not the role of the public servant to mandate that for 
everybody else. So let ' s talk about **abortion** and choice. Let ' s talk 
about them. We support Roe v. Wade. We support the **constitutional** right of 
American women to consult their own conscience, their own supportive partner, 
their own minister, but then make their own decision about pregnancy. That ' s 
something we trust American women to do that. And we don ' t think that women 
should be punished, as Donald Trump said they should, for making the decision 
to have an **abortion** . Governor Pence wants to repeal Roe v. Wade. He said 
he wants to put it on the ash heap of history. And we have some young people in 
the audience who weren ' t even born when Roe was decided. This is pretty 
important. Before Roe v. Wade, states could pass criminal laws to do just that, 
to punish women if they made the choice to terminate a pregnancy. I think you 
should live your moral values. But the last thing, the very last thing that 
government should do is have laws that would punish women who make reproductive 
choices. And that is the fundamental difference between a Clinton-Kaine ticket 
and a Trump-Pence ticket that wants to punish women who make that choice. 

Lemmas in this text that loaded on the factor:

abortion 
constitutional (secondary)
religious 
