file = t001170
date = 2012-10-11
user = RYAN
conversation = October_11,_2012_Debate_Transcript
URL = REP._PAUL_D._RYAN,_R-WIS.,_VICE_PRESIDENTIAL_CANDIDATE,AND_VICE_PRESIDENT_JOSEPH_R._BIDEN_JR._PARTICIPATE_IN_ACANDIDATES_DEBATE,_DANVILLE,_KENTUCKY

word count = 365
words loading = 7
factor score = 26

We cannot allow Iran to gain a **nuclear** **weapons** capability. Now, let ' s 
take a look at where we ' ve gone — come from. When Barack Obama was elected, 
they had enough fissile **material** — **nuclear** **material** to make one 
bomb. Now they have enough for five. They ' re racing toward a **nuclear** 
**weapon** . They ' re four years closer toward a **nuclear** **weapons** 
capability. We ' ve had four different **sanctions** , the U. N. on Iran, three 
from the Bush administration, one here. And the only reason we got it is 
because Russia watered it down and prevented the — the **sanctions** from 
hitting the central bank. Mitt Romney proposed these **sanctions** in 2007 . In 
Congress, I ' ve been fighting for these **sanctions** since 2009 . The 
administration was blocking us every step of the way. Only because we had 
strong bipartisan support for these tough **sanctions** were we able to 
overrule their objections and put them in spite of the administration. Imagine 
what would have happened if we had these **sanctions** in place earlier. You 
think Iran ' s not brazen? Look at what they ' re doing. They ' re stepping up 
their **terrorist** attacks. They tried a **terrorist** attack in the United 
States last year when they tried to blow up the Saudi ambassador at a 
restaurant in Washington, D. C. And talk about **credibility** ? When this 
administration says that all options are on the table, they send out senior 
administration officials that send all these mixed signals. And so, in order to 
solve this peacefully — which is everybody ' s goal — you have to have the 
ayatollahs change their minds. Look at where they are. They ' re moving faster 
toward a **nuclear** **weapon** . It ' s because this administration has no 
**credibility** on this issue. It ' s because this administration watered down 
**sanctions** , delayed **sanctions** , tried to stop us for putting the tough 
**sanctions** in place. Now we have them in place because of Congress. They say 
the **military** option ' s on the table, but it ' s not being viewed as 
credible. And the key is to do this peacefully, is to make sure that we have 
**credibility** . Under a Romney administration, we will have **credibility** 
on this issue. 

Lemmas in this text that loaded on the factor:

credibility 
material 
military (secondary)
nuclear 
sanction 
terrorist 
weapon 
