file = t003359
date = 1976-10-22
user = MR._FORD
conversation = October_22,_1976_Debate_Transcript
URL = The_Third_Carter-Ford_Presidential_Debate

word count = 283
words loading = 1
factor score = -4

Well, Mr. uh – Nelson, uh – I testified before two **committees** , House 
and Senate, on precisely the questions that you have asked. And the testimony 
under oath was to the effect that I did not talk to Mr. Nixon, to Mr. Haldeman, 
to Mr. Ehrlichman, or to any of the people at the White House. I said I had no 
recollection whatsoever of talking with any of the White House legislative 
liaison people. I indicated under oath that the initiative that I took was at 
the request of the ranking members of the House Banking and Currency 
**Committee** on the Republican side, which was a legitimate request and a 
proper response by me. Now that was gone into by two congressional 
**committees** , and following that investigation, both **committees** 
overwhelmingly approved me, and the House and the Senate did likewise. Now, in 
the meantime, the special prosecutor, within the last few days, after an 
investigation himself, said there was no reason for him to get involved because 
he found nothing that would justify it. And then just a day or two ago, the 
attorney general of the United States made a further investigation and came to 
precisely the same conclusion. Now, after all of those investigations by 
objective, responsible people, I think the matter is closed once and for all. 
But to add one other feature, I don ' t control any of the tapes. Those tapes 
are in the jurisdiction of the courts and I have no right to say " yes " or " 
no. " But all the **committees** , the attorney general, the special 
prosecutor, all of them have given me a clean bill of health. I think the 
matter is settled once and for all. 

Lemmas in this text that loaded on the factor:

committee 
