file = t001421
date = 2012-10-22
user = ROMNEY
conversation = October_22,_2012_Debate_Transcript
URL = PRESIDENT_BARACK_OBAMA_AND_FORMER_GOV._MITT_ROMNEY,_R-MASS.,_PARTICIPATE_IN_A_CANDIDATES_DEBATE,_LYNN_UNIVERSITY,_BOCA_RATON,_FLORIDA

word count = 510
words loading = 26
factor score = 46

No. I believe, as the **president** indicated, and said at the time that I 
**supported** his — his **action** there. I **felt** that — I wish we ' d 
have had a **better** vision of the **future** . I wish that, looking back at 
the beginning of the **president** ' s term and even further back than that, 
that we ' d have recognized that there was a growing energy and passion for 
**freedom** in that part of the **world** , and that we would have **worked** 
more aggressively with our friend and with other friends in the region to have 
them make the transition towards a more representative form of **government** , 
such that it didn ' t explode in the way that it did. But once it exploded, I 
**felt** the same as the **president** did, which is these **freedom** voices 
and the streets of Egypt, where the **people** who were speaking of our 
principles and the **President** Mubarak had done things which were 
unimaginable and the idea of him crushing his **people** was not something that 
we could possibly **support** . Let me step back and talk about what I think 
our mission has to be in the Middle East and even more broadly, because our 
purpose is to make sure the **world** is more — is peaceful. We want a 
peaceful planet. We want **people** to be able to enjoy their lives and know 
they ' re going to have a bright and prosperous **future** , not be at **war** 
. That ' s our purpose. And the mantle of leadership for the — promoting the 
principles of **peace** has fallen to America. We didn ' t ask for it. But it ' 
s an honor that we have it. But for us to be able to promote those principles 
of **peace** requires us to be **strong** . And that begins with a **strong** 
economy here at home. Unfortunately, the economy is not **stronger** . When the 
— when the **president** of Iraq — excuse me, of Iran, Ahmadinejad, says 
that our debt makes us not a great country, that ' s a frightening thing. 
Former chief of the — Joint Chiefs of Staff said that — Admiral Mullen said 
that our debt is the biggest **national** **security** **threat** we **face** . 
This — we have weakened our economy. We need a **strong** economy. We need to 
have as well a **strong** **military** . Our **military** is second to none in 
the **world** . We ' re blessed with terrific soldiers, and extraordinary 
technology and intelligence. But the idea of a trillion **dollar** in cuts 
through sequestration and budget cuts to the **military** would change that. We 
need to have **strong** **allies** . Our association and connection with our 
**allies** is essential to America ' s **strength** . We ' re the great 
**nation** that has **allies** , 42 **allies** and friends around the **world** 
. And, finally, we have to stand by our principles. And if we ' re **strong** 
in each of those things, **American** **influence** will grow. But 
unfortunately, in nowhere in the **world** is America ' s **influence** will 
grow. But unfortunately, in — nowhere in the **world** is America ' s 
**influence** greater **today** than it was four years ago. 

Lemmas in this text that loaded on the factor:

action 
ally (secondary)
american 
dollar (secondary)
face 
feel 
freedom 
future 
good 
government 
influence 
military 
nation 
national 
peace (secondary)
people 
president 
security 
strength 
strong 
support 
threat (secondary)
today 
war 
work 
world 
