file = t003042
date = 1988-10-13
user = BUSH
conversation = October_13,_1988_Debate_Transcript
URL = The_Second_Bush-Dukakis_Presidential_Debate

word count = 301
words loading = 2
factor score = 14

90 percent reductions in lead since I chaired that regulatory task force; 90 
percent. It ' s almost you remember that expression, get the lead out? It ' s 
almost out. Almost gone. **Clean** **water** ? I ' m for **clean** **water** . 
But what I ' m not for what I ' m not for is measuring it the way that the 
Democratic Congress does. We sent up a good bill on **clean** **water** , a 
sound bill on **clean** **water** . But the only way you can express your love 
for **clean** **water** is to double the appropriations for **clean** **water** 
, and then rant against the deficit. I am for **clean** **water** . I ' ve been 
an outdoorsman and a sportsman all my life. I ' ve been to these national 
parks. I led for the Earl Wallop bill or formerly Dingell-Johnson. I headed the 
task force when I was a member of the Congress way back in the late ' 60s on 
these kinds of things, on the Republican side. I led for that. And so I refuse 
to measure one ' s commitment as to whether you ' re going to double the 
spending. That is the same old argument that ' s gotten us into trouble on the 
deficit side. So I ' ll just keep saying, I am one. I ' m not going to go down 
there and try to dump the sludge from Massachusetts off the beaches off of New 
Jersey. I ' m not going to do that. That boo was excessively loud. Can you add 
five seconds, Bernie, out of fairness? Come on, give me five. I mean, this guy, 
this is too much. But I ' m not going to do that. I ' m an environmentalist. I 
believe in our parks. I believe in the President ' s commission on outdoors. 
And I ' ll do a good job, because I am committed. 

Lemmas in this text that loaded on the factor:

clean 
water 
