file = t003208
date = 1980-09-21
user = REAGAN
conversation = September_21,_1980_Debate_Transcript
URL = The_Anderson-Reagan_Presidential_Debate

word count = 410
words loading = 10
factor score = 24

Well, I believe that conservation, at course, is worthy in and of itself. 
Anything that would preserve, or help us use less **energy** , that would be 
fine, and I ' m for it. But I do not believe that conservation alone is the 
answer to the present **energy** problem, because all you ' re doing then is 
staving off, by a short time, the day when you would come to the end of the 
**energy** supply. To say that we are limited, and at a dangerous point in this 
country with regard to **energy** , I think, is to ignore the fact. The fact 
is, that in today ' s **oil** wells, there is more **oil** still there than we 
have so far taken out and used. But it would require what is known as secondary 
or tertiary efforts to bring it out of the ground. And this is known **oil** 
reserves, known supplies. There are hundreds of millions of acres of land that 
have been taken out of circulation by the Government for whatever reason they 
have, that is believed by the most knowledgeable **oil** geologists to contain 
probably more **oil** and **natural** **gas** than we have used so far since we 
**drilled** that first well 121 years ago. We have a **coal** supply that is 
equal to 50 % of the world ' s **coal** supply, good for centuries, in this 
country. I grant you that prices may go up, because as you go further and have 
to go deeper, you are adding to the cost of **production** . We have nuclear 
power, which, I believe, with the safest. the most stringent of safety 
requirements, could meet our **energy** needs for the next couple of decades 
while we go forward exploring the areas of **solar** power and other forms of 
**energy** that might be renewable and that would not be exhaustible. All of 
these things can be done. When you stop and think that we are only **drilling** 
on 2 % . have leased only 2 % of the possible. possibility for **oil** of the 
continental shelf around the United States; when you stop to think that the 
government has taken over 100 million acres of land out of circulation in 
Alaska, alone, that is believed by geologists to contain much in the line of 
minerals and **energy** **sources** , then I think it is the Government, and 
the Government with its own restrictions and regulations, that is **creating** 
the **energy** crisis. That we are, indeed, an energy-rich nation. 

Lemmas in this text that loaded on the factor:

coal 
create (secondary)
drill 
energy 
gas 
natural 
oil 
production 
solar 
source 
