file = t001728
date = 2008-10-15
user = OBAMA
conversation = October_15,_2008_Debate_Transcript
URL = The_Third_McCain-Obama_Presidential_Debate

word count = 495
words loading = 9
factor score = 14

I think that in ten years, we can reduce our dependence so that we no longer 
have to **import** **oil** from the Middle East or Venezuela. I think that ' s 
about a realistic timeframe. And this is the most important issue that our 
future economy is going to face. Obviously, we ' ve got an immediate crisis 
right now. But nothing is more important than us no longer borrowing $700 
billion or more from China and sending it to Saudi Arabia. It ' s mortgaging 
our children ' s future. Now, from the start of this campaign, I ' ve 
identified this as one of my top priorities and here is what I think we have to 
do. Number one, we do need to expand domestic **production** and that means, 
for example, telling the **oil** companies the 68 million acres that they 
currently have leased that they ' re not **drilling** , use them or lose them. 
And I think that we should look at offshore drilling and implement it in a way 
that allows us to get some additional **oil** . But understand, we only have 
three to four percent of the world ' s **oil** reserves and we use 25 percent 
of the world ' s **oil** , which means that we can ' t **drill** our way out of 
the problem. That ' s why I ' ve focused on putting resources into **solar** , 
**wind** , biodiesel, geothermal. These have been priorities of mine since I 
got to the Senate, and it is absolutely critical that we develop a high fuel 
efficient car that ' s built not in Japan and not in South Korea, but built 
here in the United States of America. We invented the auto industry and the 
fact that we have fallen so far behind is something that we have to work on. 
Now I just want to make one last point because Senator McCain mentioned NAFTA 
and the issue of **trade** and that actually bears on this issue. I believe in 
free **trade** . But I also believe that for far too long, certainly during the 
course of the Bush administration with the support of Senator McCain, the 
attitude has been that any **trade** agreement is a good **trade** agreement. 
And NAFTA doesn ' t have â€” did not have enforceable labor agreements and 
**environmental** agreements. And what I said was we should include those and 
make them enforceable. In the same way that we should enforce rules against 
China manipulating its currency to make our **exports** more expensive and 
their **exports** to us cheaper. And when it comes to South Korea, we ' ve got 
a **trade** agreement up right now, they are sending hundreds of thousands of 
South Korean cars into the United States. That ' s all good. We can only get 4 
, 000 to 5 , 000 into South Korea. That is not free **trade** . We ' ve got to 
have a president who is going to be advocating on behalf of American businesses 
and American workers and I make no apology for that. 

Lemmas in this text that loaded on the factor:

drill 
environmental 
export 
import 
oil 
production 
solar 
trade (secondary)
wind 
