file = t003300
date = 1976-09-23
user = MR._FORD
conversation = September_23,_1976_Debate_Transcript
URL = The_First_Carter-Ford_Presidential_Debate

word count = 278
words loading = 9
factor score = 24

Governor Carter skims over a very serious and a very broad subject. In January 
of uh – 1975 I submitted to the Congress and to the American people the first 
**comprehensive** **energy** program recommended by any president. It called 
for an increase in the **production** of **energy** in the United States. It 
called for uh – conservation measures so that we would save the **energy** 
that we have. If you ' re going to increase domestic **oil** and **gas** 
**production** – and we have to – you have to give those producers an 
opportunity to uh – develop their land or their wells. I recommended to the 
Congress that we should increase **production** in this country from six 
hundred million tons a year to twel- a- a billion two hundred million tons by 
1985 . In order to do that we have to improve our extraction of **coal** from 
the ground; we have to improve our utilization of **coal** – make it more 
efficient, make it **cleaner** . In addition we uh – have to expand our 
**research** and development. In my program for **energy** independence we have 
increased, for example, **solar** **energy** **research** from about $84 
million a year to about a hundred and twenty million dollars a year. We ' re 
going as fast as the experts say we should. In nuclear power we have increased 
the **research** and development, uh – under the **Energy** **Research** and 
Development Agency uh – very substantially, to insure that our ener- uh – 
nuclear power plants are safer, that they are more efficient, and that we have 
adequate safeguards. I think you have to have greater **oil** and **gas** 
**production** , more **coal** **production** , more nuclear **production** , 
and in addition you have to have **energy** conservation. 

Lemmas in this text that loaded on the factor:

clean 
coal 
comprehensive (secondary)
energy 
gas 
oil 
production 
research 
solar 
