file = t001913
date = 2004-10-05
user = CHENEY
conversation = October_5,_2004_Transcript
URL = The_Cheney-Edwards_Vice_Presidential_Debate

word count = 387
words loading = 9
factor score = 17

Well, Gwen, there are several things that I think need to be done and are being 
done. We ' ve, of course, been through a difficult recession, and then the 
aftermath of 9 / 11 , where we lost over a million jobs after that attack. But 
we think the key is to address some basic, fundamental issues that the 
president ' s already working on. I think probably the most successful thing we 
can do with respect to ending poverty is to get people jobs. There ' s no 
better antidote to poverty than a good, well-paying job that allows somebody to 
take care of their own family. To do that, we have to make America the best 
place in the world to do business. And that means we ' ve got to deal 
effectively with tax policy. We ' ve got to reduce the litigation costs that 
are built into our society. We ' ve got to provide the adequate medical care 
and make certain that we can, in fact, create the opportunities that are vital 
to that process. I ' d zero in, in particular, on **education** . I think the 
most important thing we can do is have a first-class **public** **school** 
system. I ' m a product of **public** **schools** . And the president, his 
first legislative priority was the No Child Left Behind Act. It was the first 
piece of legislation we introduced. We got it passed that first summer on a 
bipartisan basis. We even had Ted Kennedy on board for the effort. And it does 
several things. It establishes high standards. It, at the same time, sets up a 
system of **testing** with respect to our **school** system, so we can 
establish **accountability** to **parents** and make certain that they 
understand how well their **students** are doing. And they have the opportunity 
to move **students** out of poorly performing **schools** to good **schools** . 
It strikes me that that is absolutely the heart of what needs to be done from 
the standpoint of **education** . It ' s also important, as we go forward in 
the next term, we want to be able to take what we ' ve done for elementary 
**education** and move it into the secondary **education** . It ' s working. We 
' ve seen reports now of a reduction in the achievement gap between majority 
**students** and **minority** **students** . We ' re making significant 
progress. 

Lemmas in this text that loaded on the factor:

accountability 
class (secondary)
education 
minority 
parent 
public (secondary)
school 
student 
testing 
