file = t002076
date = 2000-10-03
user = GORE
conversation = October_3,_2000_Transcript
URL = The_First_Gore-Bush_Presidential_Debate

word count = 384
words loading = 12
factor score = 34

First of all, I do have mandatory **testing** . I think the governor may not 
have heard what I said clearly. The voluntary national **testing** is in 
addition to the mandatory **testing** that we require of states. All 
**schools** , all **school** **districts** , **students** themselves, and 
required **teacher** **testing** , which goes a step farther than Governor Bush 
has been willing to go. Here are a couple of differences, though, Jim. Governor 
Bush is in favor of vouchers which take taxpayer money away from **public** 
**schools** and give them to private **schools** that are not accountable for 
how the money is used and don ' t have to take all applicants. Now, private 
**schools** play a great role in our society. All of our children have gone to 
both **public** **schools** and private **schools** . But I don ' t think 
private **schools** should have a right to take taxpayer money away from 
**public** **schools** at a time when Caley Ellis is standing in that 
**classroom** . Let me give you another example. I went to a **school** in Dade 
County, Florida where the facilities are so overcrowded the children have to 
eat lunch in shifts with the first shift for lunch starting at 9:30 in the 
morning. Look, this is a funding crisis all around the country. There are fewer 
**parents** of school-age children as a percentage of the voting population and 
there is the largest generation of **students** ever. We ' re in an information 
age when learning is more important than ever. 90 % of our **kids** go to 
**public** **schools** . We have to make it the number one priority. Modernize 
our **schools** , reduce **class** size, recruit new **teachers** , give every 
child a chance to **learn** with one-on-one time in a quality â€” high-quality, 
safe **school** . If it ' s a failing **school** , shut it down and reopen it 
under a new principal with a turnaround team of specialists the way Governor 
Jim Hunt does in North Carolina. Here is another difference. The governor, if 
it ' s a failing **school** , would leave the children in that failing 
**school** for three years and then give a little bit of money to the 
**parents** , a down payment on a down payment for private **school** 
**tuition** , and pretend that that would be enough for them to go out and go 
to a private **school** . It ' s an illusion. 

Lemmas in this text that loaded on the factor:

class (secondary)
classroom 
district 
kid 
learn 
parent 
public (secondary)
school 
student 
teacher 
testing 
tuition 
