file = t003460
date = 1960-10-21
user = MR._KENNEDY
conversation = October_21,_1960_Debate_Transcript
URL = The_Fourth_Kennedy-Nixon_Presidential_Debate

word count = 1523
words loading = 12
factor score = -20

Mr. Howe, Mr. Vice President. First uh – let me again try to correct the 
record on the matter of Quemoy and Matsu. I voted for the Formosa 
**resolution** in 1955 . I have sustained it since then. I ' ve said that I 
agree with the Administration policy. Mr. Nixon earlier indicated that he would 
defend Quemoy and Matsu even if the attack on these **islands** , two **miles** 
off the coast of China, were not part of a general attack an Formosa and the 
Pescadores. I indicated that I would defend those **islands** if the attack 
were directed against Pescadores and Formosa, which is part of the Eisenhower 
policy. I ' ve supported that policy. In the last week, as a member of the 
Senate Foreign Relations Committee, I have re-read the testimony of General 
Twining representing the Administration in 1959 , and the Assistant Secretary 
of State before the Foreign Relations Committee in 1958 , and I have accurately 
described the Administration policy, and I support it wholeheartedly. So that 
really isn ' t an issue in this campaign. It isn ' t an issue with Mr. Nixon, 
who now says that he also supports the Eisenhower policy. Nor is the question 
that all Americans want peace and security an issue in this campaign. The 
question is: are we moving in the direction of peace and security? Is our 
relative strength growing? Is, as Mr. Nixon says, our prestige at an all-time 
high, as he said a week ago, and that of the **Communists** at an all-time low? 
I don ' t believe it is. I don ' t believe that our relative strength is 
increasing. And I say that not as the Democratic standard-bearer, but as a 
citizen of the United States who is concerned about the United States. I look 
at Cuba, ninety **miles** off the coast of the United States. In 1957 I was in 
Havana. I talked to the American Ambassador there. He said that he was the 
second most powerful man in Cuba. And yet even though Ambassador Smith and 
Ambassador Gardner, both Republican Ambassadors, both warned of Castro, the 
Marxist influences around Castro, the **Communist** influences around Castro, 
both of them have testified in the last six weeks, that in spite of their 
warnings to the American government, nothing was done. Our d- security depends 
upon Latin America. Can any American looking at the situation in Latin America 
feel contented with what ' s happening today, when a candidate for the 
presidency of Brazil feels it necessary to call – not on Washington during 
the campaign – but on Castro in Havana, in order to pick up the support of 
the Castro supporters in Brazil? At the American Conference – Inter-American 
Conference this summer, when we wanted them to join together in the 
denunciation of Castro and the Cuban **Communists** , we couldn ' t even get 
the Inter-American group to join together in denouncing Castro. It was rather a 
vague statement that they finally made. Do you know today that the Com- the 
**Russians** broadcast ten times as many programs in Spanish to Latin America 
as we do? Do you know we don ' t have a single program **sponsored** by our 
government to Cuba – to tell them our story, to tell them that we are their 
friends, that we want them to be free again? Africa is now the emerging area of 
the world. It contains twenty-five percent of all the members of the General 
Assembly. We didn ' t even have a Bureau of African Affairs until 1957 . In the 
Africa south of the Sahara, which is the major new section, we have less 
students from all of Africa in that area studying under government auspices 
today than from the country of Thailand. If there ' s one thing Africa needs it 
' s technical assistance. And yet last year we gave them less than five percent 
of all the technical assistance funds that we distributed around the world. We 
relied in the Middle East on the Baghdad Pact, and yet when the Iraqi 
Government was changed, the Baghdad Pact broke down. We relied on the 
Eisenhower Doctrine for the Middle East, which passed the Senate. There isn ' t 
one country in the Middle East that now endorses the Eisenhower Doctrine. We 
look to Europe uh – to Asia because the struggle is in the underdeveloped 
world. Which system, Communism or freedom, will triumph in the next five or ten 
years? That ' s what should concern us, not the history of ten, or fifteen, or 
twenty years ago. But are we doing enough in these areas? What are freedom ' s 
chances in those areas? By 1965 or 1970 , will there be other Cubas in Latin 
America? Will Guinea and Ghana, which have now voted with the **Communists** 
frequently as newly independent countries of Africa – will there be others? 
Will the Congo go **Communist** ? Will other countries? Are we doing enough in 
that area? And what about Asia? Is India going to win the economic struggle or 
is China going to win it? Who will dominate Asia in the next five or ten years? 
Communism? The Chinese? Or will freedom? The question which we have to decide 
as Americans – are we doing enough today? Is our strength and prestige 
rising? Do people want to be **identified** with us? Do they want to follow 
United States leadership? I don ' t think they do, enough. And that ' s what 
concerns me. In Africa – these countries that have newly joined the United 
**Nations** . On the question of admission of Red China, only two countries in 
all of Africa voted with us – Liberia and the Union of South Africa. The rest 
either abstained or voted against us. More countries in Asia voted against us 
on that question than voted with us. I believe that this struggle is going to 
go on, and it may be well decided in the next decade. I have seen Cuba go to 
the **Communists** . I have seen **Communist** influence and Castro influence 
rise in Latin America. I have seen us ignore Africa. There are six countries in 
Africa that are members of the United **Nations** . There isn ' t a single 
American diplomatic representative in any of those six. When Guinea became 
independent, the **Soviet** Ambassador showed up that very day. We didn ' t 
recognize them for two months; the American Ambassador didn ' t show up for 
nearly eight months. I believe that the world is changing fast. And I don ' t 
think this Administration has shown the foresight, has shown the knowledge, has 
been **identified** with the great fight which these people are **waging** to 
be free, to get a better standard of living, to live better. The average income 
in some of those countries is twenty-five dollars a year. The **Communists** 
say, " Come with us; look what we ' ve done. " And we ' ve been in – on the 
whole, uninterested. I think we ' re going to have to do better. Mr. Nixon 
talks about our being the strongest country in the world. I think we are today. 
But we were far stronger relative to the **Communists** five years ago, and 
what is of great concern is that the balance of power is in danger of moving 
with them. They made a breakthrough in missiles, and by nineteen sixty-one, 
two, and three, they will be outnumbering us in missiles. I ' m not as 
confident as he is that we will be the strongest military power by 1963 . He 
talks about economic growth as a great indicator of freedom. I agree with him. 
What we do in this country, the kind of society that we build, that will tell 
whether freedom will be sustained around the world. And yet, in the last nine 
months of this year, we ' ve had a drop in our economic growth rather than a 
**gain** . We ' ve had the lowest rate of increase of economic growth in the 
last nine months of any major industrialized society in the world. I look up 
and see the **Soviet** flag on the moon. The fact is that the State Department 
polls on our prestige and influence around the world have shown such a sharp 
drop that up till now the State Department has been unwilling to release them. 
And yet they were polled by the U. S. I. A. The point of all this is, this is a 
struggle in which we ' re engaged. We want peace. We want freedom. We want 
security. We want to be stronger. We want freedom to **gain** . But I don ' t 
believe in these changing and revolutionary times this Administration has known 
that the world is changing – has **identified** itself with that change. I 
think the **Communists** have been moving with vigor – Laos, Africa, Cuba – 
all around the world today they ' re on the move. I think we have to revita1ize 
our society. I think we have to demonstrate to the people of the world that we 
' re determined in this free country of ours to be first – not first if, and 
not first but, and not first when – but first. And when we are strong and 
when we are first, then freedom **gains** ; then the prospects for peace 
increase; then the prospects for our society **gain** . 

Lemmas in this text that loaded on the factor:

communist (secondary)
communists 
gain 
identify 
island 
mile 
nations (secondary)
resolution 
russians 
soviet (secondary)
sponsor (secondary)
wage (secondary)
