file = t003435
date = 1960-10-13
user = MR._NIXON
conversation = October_13,_1960_Debate_Transcript
URL = The_Third_Kennedy-Nixon_Presidential_Debate

word count = 456
words loading = 2
factor score = -5

Mr. Von Fremd, it would be completely irresponsible for a candidate for the 
presidency, or for a president himself, to indicate the course of action and 
the weapons he would use in the event of such an attack. I will say this: in 
the event that such an attack occurred and in the event the attack was a 
prelude to an attack on Formosa – which would be the indication today because 
the Chinese **Communists** say over and over again that their objective is not 
the offshore **islands** , that they consider them only steppingstones to 
taking Formosa – in the event that their attack then were a prelude to an 
attack on Formosa, there isn ' t any question but that the United States would 
then again, as in the case of Berlin, honor our treaty obligations and stand by 
our ally of Formosa. But to indicate in advance how we would respond, to 
indicate the nature of this response would be incorrect; it would certainly be 
inappropriate; it would not be in the best interests of the United States. I 
will only say this, however, in addition: to do what Senator Kennedy has 
suggested – to suggest that we will surrender these **islands** or force our 
Chinese Nationalist allies to surrender them in advance – is not something 
that would lead to peace; it is something that would lead, in my opinion, to 
war. This is the history of dealing with dictators. This is something that 
Senator Kennedy and all Americans must know. We tried this with Hitler. It didn 
' t work. He wanted first uh – we know, Austria, and then he went on to the 
Sudetenland and then Danzig, and each time it was thought this is all that he 
wanted. Now what do the Chinese **Communists** want? They don ' t want just 
Quemoy and Matsu; they don ' t want just Formosa; they want the world. And the 
question is if you surrender or indicate in advance that you ' re not going to 
defend any part of the free world, and you figure that ' s going to satisfy 
them, it doesn ' t satisfy them. It only whets their appetite; and then the 
question comes, when do you stop them? I ' ve often heard President Eisenhower 
in discussing this question, make the statement that if we once start the 
process of indicating that this point or that point is not the place to stop 
those who threaten the peace and freedom of the world, where do we stop them? 
And I say that those of us who stand against surrender of territory – this or 
any others – in the face of blackmail, in the s- face of force by the 
**Communists** are standing for the course that will lead to peace. 

Lemmas in this text that loaded on the factor:

communists 
island 
