file = t000692
date = 2016-10-04
user = KAINE
conversation = October_4,_2016_Debate_Transcript
URL = Vice_Presidential_Debate_at_Longwood_University_in_Farmville,_Virginia

word count = 477
words loading = 13
factor score = 25

Elaine, I think that ' s a very **fair** comment. I think we put a lot on 
**police** shoulders. And this is something I got a lot of scar tissue and 
experience on. I was a city councilman and mayor in Richmond. And when I came 
in, we had one of the highest homicide rates in the United States. We fought 
very, very hard over the course of my time in local office with our **police** 
department, and we reduced our homicide rate nearly in half. And then when I 
was governor of Virginia, we worked hard, too. And we did something we had 
really wanted to do. For the first time ever, we cracked the top 10 , 10 safest 
states, because we worked together. Here ' s what I learned as a mayor and a 
governor. The way you make communities safer and the way you make **police** 
safer is through community **policing** . You build the bonds between the 
community and the **police** force, build bonds of understanding, and then when 
people feel comfortable in their communities, that gap between the **police** 
and the communities they **serve** narrows. And when that gap narrows, it ' s 
safer for the communities and it ' s safer for the **police** . That model 
still works across our country, but there are some other models that don ' t 
work, an overly aggressive, more militarized model. Donald Trump recently said 
we need to do more stop-and-frisk around the country. That would be a big 
mistake because it polarizes the relationship between the **police** and the 
community. So here ' s what we ' ll do. We ' ll focus on community **policing** 
. We will focus on â€” and Hillary Clinton has rolled out a really 
**comprehensive** mental health **reform** package that she worked on with 
**law** **enforcement** professionals, and we will also fight the scourge of 
**gun** violence in the United States. I ' m a gun-owner. I ' m a strong Second 
Amendment supporter. But I ' ve got a lot of scar tissue, because when I was 
governor of Virginia, there was a horrible shooting at Virginia Tech, and we 
learned that through that painful situation that gaps in the **background** 
record **check** system should have been closed and it could have prevented 
that **crime** , and so we ' re going to work to do things like close 
**background** record **checks** . And if we do, we won ' t have the tragedies 
that we did. One of those **killed** at Virginia Tech was a **guy** named Liviu 
Librescu. He was a 70-plus-year-old Romanian Holocaust survivor. He had 
survived the Holocaust. Then he survived the Soviet Union takeover of his 
country. But then he was a visiting professor at Virginia Tech, and he couldn ' 
t survive the scourge of **gun** violence. We can support the Second Amendment 
and do things like **background** record **checks** and make us safer, and that 
will make **police** safer, too. 

Lemmas in this text that loaded on the factor:

background 
check 
comprehensive 
crime 
enforcement 
fair (secondary)
gun 
guy 
kill 
law 
police 
reform (secondary)
serve (secondary)
